# Customizing the GraphQL Schema

One of Gatsby's main strengths is the ability to query data from a variety of
sources in a uniform way with GraphQL. For this to work, a GraphQL Schema must
be generated that defines the shape of the data.

Gatsby is able to automatically infer a GraphQL Schema from your data, and in
many cases, this is really all you need. There are however situations when you
either want to explicitly define the data shape, or add custom functionality to
the query layer - this is what Gatsby's Schema Customization API provides.

The following guide walks through some examples to showcase the API.

> This guide is aimed at plugin authors, users trying to fix GraphQL schemas
> created by automatic type inference, developers optimizing builds for larger
> sites, and anyone interested in customizing Gatsby's schema generation.
> As such, the guide assumes that you're somewhat familiar with GraphQL types
> and with using Gatsby's Node APIs. For a higher level approach to using
> Gatsby with GraphQL, refer to the [API reference](/docs/graphql-api/).

## Explicitly defining data types

Our example project is a blog that gets its data from local Markdown files which
provide the post contents, as well as author information in JSON format. We also
have occasional guest contributors whose info we keep in a separate JSON file.

```markdown:title=src/data/post1.md
---
title: Sample Post
publishedAt: 2019-04-01
author: jane@example.com
tags:
  - wow
---

# Heading

Text
```

```json:title=src/data/author.json
[
  {
    "name": "Doe",
    "firstName": "Jane",
    "email": "jane@example.com",
    "joinedAt": "2018-01-01"
  }
]
```

```json:title=src/data/contributor.json
[
  {
    "name": "Doe",
    "firstName": "Zoe",
    "email": "zoe@example.com",
    "receivedSwag": true
  }
]
```

To be able to query the contents of these files with GraphQL, we need to first
load them into Gatsby's internal data store. This is what source and transformer
plugin accomplish - in this case `gatsby-source-filesystem` and
`gatsby-transformer-remark` plus `gatsby-transformer-json`. Every markdown post
file is hereby transformed into a "node" object in the internal data store with
a unique `id` and a type `MarkdownRemark`. Similarly, an author will be
represented by a node object of type `AuthorJson`, and contributor info will be
transformed into node objects of type `ContributorJson`.

### The Node interface

This data structure is represented in Gatsby's GraphQL schema with the `Node`
interface, which describes the set of fields common to node objects created by
source and transformer plugins (`id`, `parent`, `children`, as well as a couple
of `internal` fields like `type`). In GraphQL Schema Definition Language (SDL),
it looks like this:

```graphql
interface Node {
  id: ID!
  parent: Node!
  children: [Node!]!
  internal: Internal!
}

type Internal {
  type: String!
}
```

Types created by source and transformer plugins implement this interface. For
example, the node type created by `gatsby-transformer-json` for `authors.json`
will be represented in the GraphQL schema as:

```graphql
type AuthorJson implements Node {
  id: ID!
  parent: Node!
  children: [Node!]!
  internal: Internal!
  name: String
  firstName: String
  email: String
  joinedAt: Date
}
```

> A quick way to inspect the schema generated by Gatsby is the GraphQL Playground.
> Start your project with `GATSBY_GRAPHQL_IDE=playground gatsby develop`, open the
> playground at `http://localhost:8000/___graphql` and inspect the `Schema` tab on
> the right.

### Automatic type inference

It's important to note that the data in `author.json` does not provide type
information of the Author fields by itself. In order to translate the data
shape into GraphQL type definitions, Gatsby has to inspect the contents of
every field and check its type. In many cases this works very well and it is
still the default mechanism for creating a GraphQL schema.

There are however two problems with this approach: (1) it is quite
time-consuming and therefore does not scale very well and (2) if the values on a
field are of different types Gatsby cannot decide which one is the correct one.
A consequence of this is that if your data sources change, type inference could
suddenly fail.

Both problems can be solved by providing explicit type definitions for Gatsby's
GraphQL schema.

### Creating type definitions

Let's take the latter case first. Assume a new author joins the team, but in the
new author entry there is a typo on the `joinedAt` field: "201-04-02" which is
not a valid Date.

```diff:title=src/data/author.json
+  {
+    "name": "Doe",
+    "firstName": "John",
+    "email": "john@example.com",
+    "joinedAt": "201-04-02"
+  }
]
```

This will confuse Gatsby's type inference since the `joinedAt`
field will now have both Date and String values.

#### Fixing field types

To ensure that the field will always be of Date type, you can provide explicit
type definitions to Gatsby with the [`createTypes`](/docs/actions/#createTypes) action.
It accepts type definitions in GraphQL Schema Definition Language:

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createSchemaCustomization = ({ actions }) => {
  const { createTypes } = actions
  const typeDefs = `
    type AuthorJson implements Node {
      joinedAt: Date
    }
  `
  createTypes(typeDefs)
}
```

Note that the rest of the fields (`name`, `firstName` etc.) don't have to be
provided, they will still be handled by Gatsby's type inference.

> Actions to customize Gatsby's schema generation are made available in the
> [`createSchemaCustomization`](/docs/node-apis/#createSchemaCustomization)
> (available in Gatsby v2.12 and above),
> and [`sourcesNodes`](/docs/node-apis/#sourceNodes) APIs.

#### Opting out of type inference

There are however advantages to providing full definitions for a node type, and
bypassing the type inference mechanism altogether. With smaller scale projects
inference is usually not a performance problem, but as projects grow the
performance penalty of having to check each field type will become noticeable.

Gatsby allows to opt out of inference with the `@dontInfer` type directive - which
in turn requires that you explicitly provide type definitions for all fields
that should be available for querying:

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createSchemaCustomization = ({ actions }) => {
  const { createTypes } = actions
  const typeDefs = `
    type AuthorJson implements Node @dontInfer {
      name: String!
      firstName: String!
      email: String!
      joinedAt: Date
    }
  `
  createTypes(typeDefs)
}
```

Note that you don't need to explicitly provide the Node interface fields (`id`,
`parent`, etc.), Gatsby will automatically add them for you.

> If you wonder about the exclamation marks - those allow
> [specifying nullability](https://graphql.org/learn/schema/#lists-and-non-null)
> in GraphQL, i.e. if a field value is allowed to be `null` or not.

#### Nested types

So far, we have only been dealing with scalar values (`String` and `Date`;
GraphQL also knows `ID`, `Int`, `Float`, `Boolean` and `JSON`). Fields can
however also contain complex object values. To target those fields in GraphQL SDL, you
can provide a full type definition for the nested type, which can be arbitrarily
named (as long as the name is unique in the schema). In our example project, the
`frontmatter` field on the `MarkdownRemark` node type is a good example. Say we
want to ensure that `frontmatter.tags` will always be an array of strings.

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createSchemaCustomization = ({ actions }) => {
  const { createTypes } = actions
  const typeDefs = `
    type MarkdownRemark implements Node {
      frontmatter: Frontmatter
    }
    type Frontmatter {
      tags: [String!]!
    }
  `
  createTypes(typeDefs)
}
```

Note that with `createTypes` we cannot directly target a `Frontmatter` type
without also specifying that this is the type of the `frontmatter` field on the
`MarkdownRemark` type, The following would fail because Gatsby would have no way
of knowing which field the `Frontmatter` type should be applied to:

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createSchemaCustomization = ({ actions }) => {
  const { createTypes } = actions
  const typeDefs = `
    # This will fail!!!
    type Frontmatter {
      tags: [String]!
    }
  `
  createTypes(typeDefs)
}
```

It is useful to think about your data, and the corresponding GraphQL schema, by
always starting from the Node types created by source and transformer plugins.

> Note that the `Frontmatter` type must not implement the Node interface since
> it is not a top-level type created by source or transformer plugins: it has no
> `id` field, and is just there to describe the data shape on a nested field.

#### Gatsby Type Builders

In many cases, GraphQL SDL provides a succinct way to provide type definitions
for your schema. If however you need more flexibility, `createTypes` also
accepts type definitions provided with the help of Gatsby Type Builders, which
are more flexible than SDL syntax but less verbose than `graphql-js`. They are
accessible on the `schema` argument passed to Node APIs.

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createSchemaCustomization = ({ actions, schema }) => {
  const { createTypes } = actions
  const typeDefs = [
    schema.buildObjectType({
      name: "ContributorJson",
      fields: {
        name: "String!",
        firstName: "String!",
        email: "String!",
        receivedSwag: {
          type: "Boolean",
          resolve: source => source.receivedSwag || false,
        },
      },
      interfaces: ["Node"],
    }),
  ]
  createTypes(typeDefs)
}
```

Gatsby Type Builders allow referencing types as simple strings, and accept full
field configs (`type`, `args`, `resolve`). When defining top-level types, don't forget
to pass `interfaces: ['Node']`, which does the same for Type Builders as adding
`implements Node` does for SDL-defined types. It is also possible to opt out of type
inference with Type Builders by setting the `infer` type extension to `false`:

```diff
schema.buildObjectType({
  name: "ContributorJson",
  fields: {
    name: "String!",
  },
  interfaces: ["Node"],
+ extensions: {
+   // While in SDL we have two different directives, @infer and @dontInfer to
+   // control inference behavior, Gatsby Type Builders take a single `infer`
+   // extension which accepts a Boolean
+   infer: false
+ },
}),
```

> Type Builders also exist for Input, Interface and Union types:
> `buildInputType`, `buildInterfaceType`, and `buildUnionType`.
> Note that the `createTypes` action also accepts `graphql-js` types directly,
> but usually either SDL or Type Builders are the better alternatives.

#### Foreign-key fields

Gatsby's automatic type inference has one trick up its sleeve: for every field
that ends in `___NODE` it will interpret the field value as an `id` and create a
foreign-key relation.

> Note: Before the introduction of the Schema Customization APIs in Gatsby v2.2,
> there were two mechanisms to create links between node types: a plugin author would use the `___NODE`
> fieldname convention (for plugins), and a user would define [mappings](/docs/gatsby-config/#mapping-node-types) between fields in their `gatsby-config.js`. Both users and plugin authors can now use the `@link` extension described below.

Creating foreign-key relations with the `createTypes` action,
i.e. without relying on type inference and the `___NODE` field naming
convention, requires a bit of manual setup.

In our example project, we want the `frontmatter.author` field on
`MarkdownRemark` nodes to expand the provided field value to a full `AuthorJson` node.
For this to work, we have to provide a custom field resolver. (see below for
more info on `context.nodeModel`)

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createSchemaCustomization = ({ actions, schema }) => {
  const { createTypes } = actions
  const typeDefs = [
    "type MarkdownRemark implements Node { frontmatter: Frontmatter }",
    schema.buildObjectType({
      name: "Frontmatter",
      fields: {
        author: {
          type: "AuthorJson",
          resolve: (source, args, context, info) => {
            // If we were linking by ID, we could use `getNodeById` to
            // find the correct author:
            // return context.nodeModel.getNodeById({
            //   id: source.author,
            //   type: "AuthorJson",
            // })
            // But since we are using the author email as foreign key,
            // we can use `runQuery`, or get all author nodes
            // with `getAllNodes` and manually find the linked author
            // node:
            return context.nodeModel
              .getAllNodes({ type: "AuthorJson" })
              .find(author => author.email === source.author)
          },
        },
      },
    }),
  ]
  createTypes(typeDefs)
}
```

What is happening here is that we provide a custom field resolver that asks
Gatsby's internal data store for the full node object with the specified
`id` and `type`.

Because creating foreign-key relations is such a common use case, Gatsby
luckily also provides a much easier way to do this -- with the help of
extensions or directives. It looks like this:

```graphql
type MarkdownRemark implements Node {
  frontmatter: Frontmatter
}
type Frontmatter {
  author: AuthorJson @link # default foreign-key relation by `id`
  reviewers: [AuthorJson] @link(by: "email") # foreign-key relation by custom field
}
type AuthorJson implements Node {
  posts: [MarkdownRemark] @link(by: "frontmatter.author.email", from: "email") # easy back-ref
}
```

You provide a `@link` directive on a field and Gatsby will internally
add a resolver that is quite similar to the one we wrote manually above. If no
argument is provided, Gatsby will use the `id` field as the foreign-key,
otherwise the foreign-key has to be provided with the `by` argument. The
optional `from` argument allows getting the field on the current type which acts as the foreign-key to the field specified in `by`.
In other words, you `link` **on** `from` **to** `by`. This makes `from` especially helpful when adding a field for back-linking.

> Note that when using `createTypes` to fix type inference for a foreign-key field
> created by a plugin, the underlying data will probably live on a field with
> a `___NODE` suffix. Use the `from` argument to point the `link` extension to
> the correct field name. For example: `author: [AuthorJson] @link(from: "author___NODE")`.

#### Extensions and directives

Out of the box, Gatsby provides [four extensions](/docs/actions/#createTypes)
that allow adding custom functionality to fields without having to manually
write field resolvers: the `link` extension has already been discussed above,
`dateformat` allows adding date formatting options, `fileByRelativePath` is
similar to `link` but will resolve relative paths when linking to `File` nodes,
and `proxy` is helpful when dealing with data that contains field names with
characters that are invalid in GraphQL.

To add an extension to a field you can either use a directive in SDL, or the
`extensions` property when using Gatsby Type Builders:

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createSchemaCustomization = ({ action, schema }) => {
  const { createTypes } = actions
  const typeDefs = [
    "type MarkdownRemark implements Node { frontmatter: Frontmatter }",
    `type Frontmatter {
      publishedAt: Date @dateformat(formatString: "DD-MM-YYYY")
    }`
    schema.buildObjectType({
      name: 'AuthorJson',
      fields: {
        joinedAt: {
          type: 'Date',
          extensions: {
            dateformat: {}
          }
        }
      }
    })
  ]
  createTypes(typeDefs)
}
```

The above example adds [date formatting options](/docs/graphql-reference/#dates)
to the `AuthorJson.joinedAt` and the `MarkdownRemark.frontmatter.publishedAt`
fields. Those options are available as field arguments when querying those fields:

```graphql
query {
  allAuthorJson {
    joinedAt(fromNow: true)
  }
}
```

For `publishedAt` we also provide a default `formatString` which will be used
when no explicit formatting options are provided in the query.

#### Setting default field values

For setting default field values, Gatsby currently does not (yet) provide an
out-of-the-box extension, so resolving a field to a default value (instead of
`null`) requires manually adding a field resolver. For example, to add a default
tag to every blog post:

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createSchemaCustomization = ({ action, schema }) => {
  const { createTypes } = actions
  const typeDefs = [
    "type MarkdownRemark implements Node { frontmatter: Frontmatter }",
    schema.buildObjectType({
      name: "Frontmatter",
      fields: {
        tags: {
          type: "[String!]",
          resolve(source, args, context, info) {
            // For a more generic solution, we could pick the field value from
            // `source[info.fieldName]`
            const { tags } = source
            if (source.tags == null || (Array.isArray(tags) && !tags.length)) {
              return ["uncategorized"]
            }
            return tags
          },
        },
      },
    }),
  ]
  createTypes(typeDefs)
}
```

#### Creating custom extensions

With the [`createFieldExtension`](/docs/actions/#createFieldExtension) action
it is possible to define custom extensions as a way to add reusable functionality
to fields. Let's say we want to add a `fullName` field to `AuthorJson`
and `ContributorJson`.

We could of course write a `fullNameResolver`, and use it in two places:

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
const fullNameResolver = source => `${source.firstName} ${source.name}`

exports.createSchemaCustomization = ({ actions, schema }) => {
  actions.createTypes([
    {
      name: "AuthorJson",
      interfaces: ["Node"],
      fields: {
        fullName: {
          type: "String",
          resolve: fullNameResolver,
        },
      },
    },
    {
      name: "ContributorJson",
      interfaces: ["Node"],
      fields: {
        fullName: {
          type: "String",
          resolve: fullNameResolver,
        },
      },
    },
  ])
}
```

However, to make this functionality available to other plugins as well, and make
it usable in SDL, we can register it as a field extension.

A field extension definition requires a name, and an `extend` function, which
should return a (partial) field config (an object, with `type`, `args`, `resolve`)
which will be merged into the existing field config.

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createSchemaCustomization = ({ actions }) => {
  const { createFieldExtension, createTypes } = actions

  createFieldExtension({
    name: "fullName",
    extend(options, prevFieldConfig) {
      return {
        resolve(source) {
          return `${source.firstName} ${source.name}`
        },
      }
    },
  })

  createTypes(`
    type AuthorJson implements Node {
      fullName: String @fullName
    }
    type ContributorJson implements Node {
      fullName: String @fullName
    }
  `)
}
```

This approach becomes a lot more powerful when plugins provide custom field
extensions. A _very_ basic markdown transformer plugin could for example provide
an extension to convert markdown strings into html:

```js:title=gatsby-transformer-basic-md/src/gatsby-node.js
const remark = require(`remark`)
const html = require(`remark-html`)

exports.createSchemaCustomization = ({ actions }) => {
  actions.createFieldExtension({
    name: "md",
    args: {
      sanitize: {
        type: "Boolean!",
        defaultValue: true,
      },
    },
    // The extension `args` (above) are passed to `extend` as
    // the first argument (`options` below)
    extend(options, prevFieldConfig) {
      return {
        args: {
          sanitize: "Boolean",
        },
        resolve(source, args, context, info) {
          const fieldValue = context.defaultFieldResolver(
            source,
            args,
            context,
            info
          )
          const shouldSanitize =
            args.sanitize != null ? args.sanitize : options.sanitize
          const processor = remark().use(html, { sanitize: shouldSanitize })
          return processor.processSync(fieldValue).contents
        },
      }
    },
  })
}
```

It can then be used in any `createTypes` call by simply adding the directive/extension
to the field:

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createSchemaCustomization = ({ actions }) => {
  actions.createTypes(`
    type BlogPost implements Node {
      content: String @md
    }
  `)
}
```

Note that in the above example, we have additionally provided configuration options
with `args`. This is e.g. useful to provide default field arguments:

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createSchemaCustomization = ({ actions }) => {
  actions.createTypes(`
    type BlogPost implements Node {
      content: String @md(sanitize: false)
    }
  `)
}
```

Also note that field extensions can decide themselves if an existing field resolver
should be wrapped or overwritten. The above examples have all decided to simply return
a new `resolve` function. Because the `extend` function receives the current field
config as its second argument, an extension can also decide to wrap an existing resolver:

```diff
extend(options, prevFieldConfig) {
+  const { resolve } = prevFieldConfig
+  return {
+    async resolve(source, args, context, info) {
+      const resultFromPrevResolver = await resolve(source, args, context, info)
      /* ... */
+      return processor.processSync(resultFromPrevResolver).contents
+    }
+  }
}
```

If multiple field extensions are added to a field, resolvers are processed in this order:
first a custom resolver added with `createTypes` (or `createResolvers`) runs, then field
extension resolvers execute from left to right.

Finally, note that in order to get the current fieldValue, we use `context.defaultFieldResolver`.

## createResolvers API

While it is possible to directly pass `args` and `resolvers` along the type
definitions using Gatsby Type Builders, an alternative approach specifically
tailored towards adding custom resolvers to fields is the `createResolvers` Node
API.

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createResolvers = ({ createResolvers }) => {
  const resolvers = {
    Frontmatter: {
      author: {
        resolve(source, args, context, info) {
          return context.nodeModel.getNodeById({
            id: source.author,
            type: "AuthorJson",
          })
        },
      },
    },
  }
  createResolvers(resolvers)
}
```

Note that `createResolvers` allows adding new fields to types, modifying `args`
and `resolver` -- but not overriding the field type. This is because
`createResolvers` is run last in schema generation, and modifying a field type
would mean having to regenerate corresponding input types (`filter`, `sort`),
which we want to avoid. If possible, specifying field types should be done with
the `createTypes` action.

### Accessing Gatsby's data store from field resolvers

As mentioned above, Gatsby's internal data store and query capabilities are
available to custom field resolvers on the `context.nodeModel` argument passed
to every resolver. Accessing node(s) by `id` (and optional `type`) is possible
with [`getNodeById`](/docs/node-model/#getNodeById) and
[`getNodesByIds`](/docs/node-model/#getNodesByIds). To get all nodes, or all
nodes of a certain type, use [`getAllNodes`](/docs/node-model/#getAllNodes).
And running a query from inside your resolver functions can be accomplished
with [`runQuery`](/docs/node-model/#runQuery), which accepts `filter` and `sort`
query arguments.

We could for example add a field to the `AuthorJson` type that lists all recent
posts by an author:

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createResolvers = ({ createResolvers }) => {
  const resolvers = {
    AuthorJson: {
      recentPosts: {
        type: ["MarkdownRemark"],
        resolve(source, args, context, info) {
          return context.nodeModel.runQuery({
            query: {
              filter: {
                frontmatter: {
                  author: { eq: source.email },
                  date: { gt: "2019-01-01" },
                },
              },
            },
            type: "MarkdownRemark",
            firstOnly: false,
          })
        },
      },
    },
  }
  createResolvers(resolvers)
}
```

When using `runQuery` to sort query results, be aware that both `sort.fields`
and `sort.order` are `GraphQLList` fields. Also, nested fields on `sort.fields`
have to be provided in dot-notation (not separated by triple underscores).
For example:

```js
context.nodeModel.runQuery({
  query: {
    sort: {
      fields: ["frontmatter.publishedAt"],
      order: ["DESC"],
    },
  },
  type: "MarkdownRemark",
})
```

### Custom query fields

One powerful approach enabled by `createResolvers` is adding custom root query
fields. While the default root query fields added by Gatsby (e.g.
`markdownRemark` and `allMarkdownRemark`) provide the whole range of query
options, query fields designed specifically for your project can be useful. For
example, we can add a query field for all external contributors to our example blog
who have received their swag:

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createResolvers = ({ createResolvers }) => {
  const resolvers = {
    Query: {
      contributorsWithSwag: {
        type: ["ContributorJson"],
        resolve(source, args, context, info) {
          return context.nodeModel.runQuery({
            query: {
              filter: {
                receivedSwag: { eq: true },
              },
            },
            type: "ContributorJson",
            firstOnly: false,
          })
        },
      },
    },
  }
  createResolvers(resolvers)
}
```

Because we might also be interested in the reverse - which contributors haven't
received their swag yet - why not add a (required) custom query arg?

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createResolvers = ({ createResolvers }) => {
  const resolvers = {
    Query: {
      contributors: {
        type: ["ContributorJson"],
        args: {
          receivedSwag: "Boolean!",
        },
        resolve(source, args, context, info) {
          return context.nodeModel.runQuery({
            query: {
              filter: {
                receivedSwag: { eq: args.receivedSwag },
              },
            },
            type: "ContributorJson",
            firstOnly: false,
          })
        },
      },
    },
  }
  createResolvers(resolvers)
}
```

It is also possible to provide more complex custom input types which can be defined
directly inline in SDL. We could for example add a field to the `ContributorJson`
type that counts the number of posts by a contributor, and then add a custom root
query field `contributors` which accepts `min` or `max` arguments to only return
contributors who have written at least `min`, or at most `max` number of posts:

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createResolvers = ({ createResolvers }) => {
  const resolvers = {
    Query: {
      contributors: {
        type: ["ContributorJson"],
        args: {
          postsCount: "input PostsCountInput { min: Int, max: Int }",
        },
        resolve(source, args, context, info) {
          const { max, min = 0 } = args.postsCount || {}
          const operator = max != null ? { lte: max } : { gte: min }
          return context.nodeModel.runQuery({
            query: {
              filter: {
                posts: operator,
              },
            },
            type: "ContributorJson",
            firstOnly: false,
          })
        },
      },
    },
    ContributorJson: {
      posts: {
        type: `Int`,
        resolve: (source, args, context, info) => {
          return context.nodeModel
            .getAllNodes({ type: "MarkdownRemark" })
            .filter(post => post.frontmatter.author === source.email).length
        },
      },
    },
  }
  createResolvers(resolvers)
}
```

### Taking care of hot reloading

When creating custom field resolvers, it is important to ensure that Gatsby
knows about the data a page depends on for hot reloading to work properly. When
you retrieve nodes from the store with [`context.nodeModel`](/docs/node-model/) methods,
it is usually not necessary to do anything manually, because Gatsby will register
dependencies for the query results automatically. The exception is `getAllNodes`
which will _not_ register data dependencies by default. This is because
requesting re-running of queries when any node of a certain type changes is
potentially a very expensive operation. If you are sure you really need this,
you can add a page data dependency either programmatically with
[`context.nodeModel.trackPageDependencies`](/docs/node-model/#trackPageDependencies), or with:

```js
context.nodeModel.getAllNodes(
  { type: "MarkdownRemark" },
  { connectionType: "MarkdownRemark" }
)
```

## Custom Interfaces and Unions

Finally, let's say we want to have a page on our example blog that lists all
team members (authors and contributors). What we could do is have two queries,
one for `allAuthorJson` and one for `allContributorJson` and manually merge
those. GraphQL however provides a more elegant solution to these kinds of
problems with "abstract types" (Interfaces and Unions). Since authors and
contributors actually share most of the fields, we can abstract those up into
a `TeamMember` interface and add a custom query field for all team members
(as well as a custom resolver for full names):

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createSchemaCustomization = ({ actions }) => {
  const { createTypes } = actions
  const typeDefs = `
    interface TeamMember {
      name: String!
      firstName: String!
      email: String!
    }

    type AuthorJson implements Node & TeamMember {
      name: String!
      firstName: String!
      email: String!
      joinedAt: Date
    }

    type ContributorJson implements Node & TeamMember {
      name: String!
      firstName: String!
      email: String!
      receivedSwag: Boolean
    }
  `
  createTypes(typeDefs)
}

exports.createResolvers = ({ createResolvers }) => {
  const fullName = {
    type: "String",
    resolve(source, args, context, info) {
      return source.firstName + " " + source.name
    },
  }
  const resolvers = {
    Query: {
      allTeamMembers: {
        type: ["TeamMember"],
        resolve(source, args, context, info) {
          return context.nodeModel.getAllNodes({ type: "TeamMember" })
        },
      },
    },
    AuthorJson: {
      fullName,
    },
    ContributorJson: {
      fullName,
    },
  }
  createResolvers(resolvers)
}
```

To use the newly added root query field in a page query to get the full names of
all team members, we can write:

```js
export const query = graphql`
  {
    allTeamMembers {
      ... on AuthorJson {
        fullName
      }
      ... on ContributorJson {
        fullName
      }
    }
  }
`
```

### Queryable interfaces with the `@nodeInterface` extension

Since Gatsby 2.13.22, we can achieve the same thing as above by adding the `@nodeInterface`
extension to the `TeamMember` interface. This will treat the interface like a normal
top-level type that implements the `Node` interface, and thus automatically add root
query fields for the interface.

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createSchemaCustomization = ({ actions }) => {
  const { createTypes } = actions
  const typeDefs = `
    interface TeamMember @nodeInterface {
      id: ID!
      name: String!
      firstName: String!
      email: String!
    }

    type AuthorJson implements Node & TeamMember {
      name: String!
      firstName: String!
      email: String!
      joinedAt: Date
    }

    type ContributorJson implements Node & TeamMember {
      name: String!
      firstName: String!
      email: String!
      receivedSwag: Boolean
    }
  `
  createTypes(typeDefs)
}
```

When querying, use inline fragments for the fields that are specific to the types
implementing the interface (i.e. fields that are not shared):

```js
export const query = graphql`
  {
    allTeamMember {
      nodes {
        name
        firstName
        email
        __typeName
        ... on AuthorJson {
          joinedAt
        }
        ... on ContributorJson {
          receivedSwag
        }
        ... on Node {
          parent {
            id
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
`
```

Including the `__typeName` introspection field allows to check the node type when iterating
over the query results in your component:

```js
data.allTeamMember.nodes.map(node => {
  switch (node.__typeName) {
    case `AuthorJson`:
      return <Author {...node} />
    case `ContributorJson`:
      return <Contributor {...node} />
  }
})
```

> Note: All types implementing an interface with the `@nodeInterface` extension
> must also implement the `Node` interface.

## Extending third-party types

So far, the examples have been dealing with types created from locally available data.
However, Gatsby also allows to integrate and modify third-party GraphQL schemas.

Usually, those third-party schemas are retrieved from remote sources via introspection
query with Gatsby's `gatsby-source-graphql` plugin. To customize types integrated from
a third-party schema, we can use the [`createResolvers`](/docs/node-apis/#createResolvers) API.

### Feeding remote images into `gatsby-image`

As an example, let's look at [using-gatsby-source-graphql](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/examples/using-gatsby-source-graphql/gatsby-node.js) to see how we could use `createResolvers` to feed images from a CMS into `gatsby-image` (the assumption is that `gatsby-source-graphql` was configured
to prefix all types from the third-party schema with `CMS`):

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
exports.createResolvers = ({
  actions,
  cache,
  createNodeId,
  createResolvers,
  store,
  reporter,
}) => {
  const { createNode } = actions
  createResolvers({
    CMS_Asset: {
      imageFile: {
        type: `File`,
        resolve(source, args, context, info) {
          return createRemoteFileNode({
            url: source.url,
            store,
            cache,
            createNode,
            createNodeId,
            reporter,
          })
        },
      },
    },
  })
}
```

We create a new `imageFile` field on the `CMS_Asset` type, which will create `File`
nodes from every value on the `url` field. Since `File` nodes automatically have
`childImageSharp` convenience fields available, we can feed the images from the CMS
into `gatsby-image` by simply querying:

```graphql
query {
  cms {
    post {
      # In this example, the `post.image` field is of type `CMS_Asset`
      image {
        # It is important to include all fields in the query which we want to
        # access in the resolver. In this example we want to make sure to include
        # the `url` field. In the future, Gatsby might provide a `@projection`
        # extension to automatically include those fields.
        url
        imageFile {
          childImageSharp {
            fixed {
              ...GatsbyImageSharpFixed
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
