---
title: Working with Etsy in Gatsby
---

This guide explains how to begin working with the e-commerce site Etsy in Gatsby.

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes you already have a working Gatsby site and a shop at [Etsy](https://www.etsy.com/).

## [gatsby-source-etsy ](/packages/gatsby-source-etsy/)

To get started using the gatsby-source-etsy while in your terminal, type the command:

`npm i gatsby-source-etsy`

You will then need to add the plugin, your API key, and Shop ID to your `gatsby-config.js` file:

```jsx:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: "gatsby-source-etsy",
      options: {
        // highlight-start
        apiKey: "your api key here",
        shopId: "your shop id here",
        //highlight-end
        language: "en", // optional
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

To run your new configuration you will have to restart the gatsby local servers using `gatsby develop`

## Etsy API

Utilizing the Etsy API (Application Programming Interface), developers and non-developers can create apps for the web that pull in information such as BillCharge, CartListing, ShippingOption, and a list of other API references available to query.

You must create a [developer account](https://www.etsy.com/developers/register) with Etsy, confirm the account, and enable two-factor authentication. This will allow you to generate and receive your own API key. You will be asked for a short description of your app.

Most importantly, in order for your app to function, you will need your Etsy [ShopId](https://support.cartrover.com/portal/kb/articles/how-to-get-your-etsy-shop-id) which is the unique number associated with your store.

To get a better understand of the different options the Etsy API has to offer you, it’s recommended to review the Etsy [documentation](https://www.etsy.com/developers/documentation) on how to get started.

The gatsby-source-etsy plugin allows you to pull in information such as featured listing info and images directly from your Etsy shop using the API giving you the option to specify the fields, order in with the items are arranged, and the number of items you would like to be listed.

## Working with components in Etsy

Pull your Etsy listing data into a component by creating a GraphQL query and specify what data you would like to be generated by calling out the field you would like to display as listed in the example below.

```graphql
{
  allFeaturedEtsyListing(
    sort: { fields: featured_rank, order: ASC }
    limit: 4
  ) {
    nodes {
      currency_code
      title
      listing_id
      price
      url
    }
  }
}
```

Due to e-commerce being relatively new in gatsby there is only a limited amount of that that can be queried:

## Queryable entities

- allFeaturedEtsyListing
- allEtsyListingImage
- featuredEtsyListing
  - childrenEtsyListingImage
- etsyListingImage
  - childFile

## Gatsby advantages

If you are familiar with Etsy, you are aware of the many restrictions around branding. This results in most of the stores having a similar look and limits the creativity of content creators.

Creators also do not own their content giving Etsy total control over the shops and products listed. Search engine optimization is also an issue most users have to sacrifice in order to get the benefits of the discoverability Etsy offers.

Building with Gatsby eliminates these issues allowing shop owners to have more control while allowing you to keep the traffic you have generated from Etsy.

## Opportunity for a new plugin/starter

Want to create a new Etsy starter or plugin for gatsby? Check out the [contributing guide](/contributing/)!
