README.md, before:

[![Travis CI Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/gatsbyjs/gatsby.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gatsbyjs/gatsby)
[![npm package](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/gatsby.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.org/package/gatsby)
[![gatsby channel on discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/discord-gatsby%40reactiflux-738bd7.svg?style=flat-square)](https://discord.gg/0ZcbPKXt5bVoxkfV)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/gatsbyjs.svg?style=social)](https://twitter.com/gatsbyjs)

# Gatsby
Transform plain text into dynamic blogs and websites using the latest
web technologies. A React.js static site generator.

Build sites like it's 1995. Files are translated into HTML pages at the
same position within the file system. Add a markdown file at `/docs/index.md` and
it'll be converted to `/docs/index.html`.

Supports Markdown, HTML, and React.js components out of the box. Easy to add
support for additional files types.

Leverages [React Router's "nested component
hierarchy"](https://github.com/rackt/react-router/blob/master/docs/Introduction.md)
to make templating incredibly intuitive.

All templates, css, and content are *hot reloadable*.

![live-reloading example](http://zippy.gfycat.com/UltimateWeeklyBarebirdbat.gif)

### Goals
* No-reload page transitions
* Hot reload editing. Tweak your pages, templates, and styles and see changes in
  real time.
* Make React.js component model and ecosystem available for building static sites
* Intuitive directory-based URLs. The URL of a page is derived from its
  spot on the file system.
* Support "Starters" — install starter sites directly from Github. Use open sourced
  starters or build your own.

## Sites built with Gatsby
* [bricolage.io](http://bricolage.io?utm_source=github.com) ([source](https://github.com/KyleAMathews/blog))
* [relaterocket.co](https://relaterocket.co?utm_source=github.com)
* [reindex.io](https://www.reindex.io)
* [syncano.io](https://www.syncano.io)
* [graphene-python.org](http://graphene-python.org/) ([source](https://github.com/graphql-python/graphene/tree/master/docs))
* [back-to-the-basics.io](http://back-to-the-basics.io/)
* [ashk.io](http://ashk.io/) ([source](https://github.com/wpioneer/mysites-blog))
* [nordnet.se/brand](https://www.nordnet.se/brand/)
* [likescoffee.com](http://likescoffee.com/) ([source](https://github.com/pamo/pamo.github.io/tree/development))
* [vii.campjs.com](http://vii.campjs.com/) ([source](https://github.com/campjs/campjs-vii))
* [Edit this file to add yours!](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/README.md)

### Why use Gatsby instead of other Static Site Generators
* No-refresh page transitions
* The awesome React.js component model
* Live editing on every part of your site. Dramatically speed development.

### I'm already building a server-rendered React.js site, is Gatsby a good fit?
If your site falls closer to the site end of the app<---->site spectrum
then yes.

Gatsby is an excellent fit for blogs, marketing sites, docs sites, etc. Proper web
apps should probably remain as normal web apps (though I'd love to be
proved wrong!).

### Warning!
Gatsby is not yet stable. APIs will break. Functionality is missing. It's
usable but if you plan on building with it, expect a rocky road for some time.

Contributions welcome!

## Getting started

### Install
`npm install -g gatsby`

### Usage
1. Create new Gatsby site `gatsby new my-test-gatsby-site` This creates the
   directory for your Gatsby project and adds the minimal files
   needed.
2. `cd my-test-gatsby-site`
3. `gatsby develop` — Gatsby will start a hot-reloading development
   server accessible at [localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000)
4. See the tutorial below for more.

### Gatsby Starters
The Gatsby cli tool lets you install "starters". These are
partially built sites preconfigured to help you get moving faster on
creating a certain type of site.

When creating a new site, you can optionally specify a starter to
base your new site on e.g. `gatsby new [SITE_DIRECTORY] [URL_OF_STARTER]`

For example, to quickly create a blog using Gatsby, you could install
the Gatsby Starter Blog by running:

`gatsby new blog https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-blog`

This downloads the files and initializes the site by running `npm
install`

If you don't specify a custom starter, your site will created
from the [default
starter](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-default).

There are several starters that have been created. Create a PR to
include yours!

* [Kitchen sink default starter](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-default) ([Demo](http://gatsbyjs.github.io/gatsby-starter-default/))
* [Simple blog](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-blog) ([Demo](http://gatsbyjs.github.io/gatsby-starter-blog/))
* [Simple documentation site](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-documentation) ([Demo](http://gatsbyjs.github.io/gatsby-starter-documentation/))

### Tutorial: Building a documentation site from the Gatsby Documentation Starter
1. Install gatsby `npm install -g gatsby`
1. Install documentation site starter `gatsby new docs-site
   gh:gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-documentation`
2. type `cd docs-site`
2. type `gatsby develop`
3. Open site in browser at [localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000). Verify clicking on links works.
4. Try editing the site's config file `config.toml`.
   Change the `siteTitle` key. The site's title should change shortly
   after saving.
5. Next try editing a doc page. Open
   `/pages/docs/getting-started/index.md` and edit it. Again any saved
   changes should load without refreshing in the browser.
6. Add a new markdown page to the documentation. Copy the `getting-started`
   directory to `some-additional-steps`. Then edit the markdown file
   within the new directory. If you're familiar with other static site
   generation software, you'll be familiar with the "frontmatter" at the
   top of the file. Edit the title there + change the order to "5". Save
   this. Ideally this new file would be hot reloaded like other changes
   but I haven't figured out how to make this happen yet ([help
   appreciated here](https://github.com/webpack/webpack/issues/1162)).
   So to see your new page, restart `gatsby develop` and then refresh your
   browser.
7. Build your site `gatsby build`. The site is built to the `/public`
   directory. Serve the site by going into the public directory and
   typing `python -m SimpleHTTPServer`

## How Gatsby works

### How files become pages
The process is file --> Webpack loader --> React.js wrapper component
--> static html page.

Gatsby leverages [Webpack](http://webpack.github.io/) extensively.
 Webpack is a sophisticated module bundler that can turn any sort of
file into a commonjs module. Webpack uses "Loaders" to convert a file
into a module. These loaded modules are then wrapped inside a react.js
component that's specific to a given file type. Gatsby then generates a
static html page from this component.

Gatsby ships with default loaders and wrappers for HTML, Markdown, and
JSX/CJSX but for most projects you'll want to write your own loaders and
wrappers (very easy to do).

As an example of how this process works, let's walk quickly through
converting a markdown file into an html page.

The [default Gatsby markdown
loader](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/lib/loaders/markdown-loader/index.js)
 parses the markdown into HTML and uses [Highlight.js](https://highlightjs.org/)
 to syntax highlight code blocks.

Our markdown file.

```markdown
---
title: This is a title
---

# Hi friends.
This is a markdown file.
```

When loaded and required, the resulting javascript object looks like the following:

```javascript
{
  file: {
    // Information about file on disk e.g. extension, directory path, etc.
  },
  data: {
    title: "This is a title",
    body: "<h1>Hi friends.</h1><p>This is a markdown file</p>"
  }
}

```
Now Gatsby wraps the markdown file in this very simple React.js component.

```javascript
module.exports = React.createClass({
  displayName: "MarkdownWrapper",

  render: function() {
    var post = this.props.route.page.data

    return <div className="markdown">
      <h1>{post.title}</h1>
      <div dangerouslySetInnerHTML={{__html: post.body}}/>
    </div>
  }
})
```

### Structure of a Gatsby site
* `config.toml` - Core application configuration is stored here. Available via a `require`
or `import` of 'config'. Values:
  * `noProductionJavascript` - set to a truthy value to prevent generation of bundle.js
  (containing your client-side Single Page App) during a `gatbsy build`. You'll need
  to update your top-level `html.js` file so that it doesn't pull in `bundle.js` in
  production, but you'll want to keep it for `gatsby develop` mode.
* `/pages` - All pages go here. Everything is turned into a page except
files which start with an underscore:
  * `_template` files under `/pages` are treated as parent templates for other pages in
  the same directory tree.
  * (optional) `pages/404.js` or `pages/404.html` - automatically picked up as your 'not
  found' page. If you `<Link>` to an unknown URL, this page will be shown. Note: in
  production, you'll need to [set up your server host to show this page when it can't find
  the requested file](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/pull/121#issuecomment-194715068).
* (optional) `post-build.js` - a `function(pages, cb)` you can provide to do final
processing on all generated content.
* (optional) `gatsby-client-utils.js` - a way to hook into key application events. Export
`onRouteChange` of type `function(location)` to be notified whenever React-Router
navigates.

### How to use your own webpack loaders

Gatsby uses [webpack-configurator](https://github.com/lewie9021/webpack-configurator)
to make changing the webpack loaders easy. The default set of loaders is organized by [key](lib/utils/webpack.config.js#L125).

Gatsby uses `gatsby.config.js` to pass control to the user before
resolving the final webpack configuration. `gatsby.config.js` should
live in the root of your project and export a function which accepts a
webpack-configurator config object and an environment string. The
environment string will be one of `develop`, `static` or
`production`.

Create a `gatsby.config.js` in the root of your project:

```javascript
exports.modifyWebpackConfig = function(config, env) {
  // edit loaders here
  return config;
}
```

Consider the following example which removes the default css loader
and replaces it with a loader that uses css-modules.

```javascript
exports.modifyWebpackConfig = function(config, env) {
  config.removeLoader('css');
  config.loader('css', function(cfg) {
    cfg.test = /\.css$/;
    cfg.loader = 'style!css?modules'
    return cfg
  })
  return config;
};
```

Each loader (`cfg` in the above example) can be a valid
[webpack loader](https://webpack.github.io/docs/configuration.html#module-loaders)
and there are a host of
[preexisting loaders](https://webpack.github.io/docs/list-of-loaders.html)
which you can use to enhance Gatsby.

It is also possible to [write your own loaders](https://webpack.github.io/docs/how-to-write-a-loader.html).

Gatsby includes [some default loaders](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/lib/loaders) that you can also override.

To write your own loader or override a Gatsby loader, make a `loaders` directory at the root of your site that contains directories for custom loaders.

e.g. `loaders/markdown-loader/index.js` [will take precedence](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/lib/utils/webpack.config.js#L325)
over the markdown-loader that Gatsby includes.

[See an example of a custom loader in the default starter](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-default/blob/master/loaders/markdown-loader/index.js).

### How to use your own webpack plugins

Similar to the loaders, plugins are handled via
[webpack-configurator](https://github.com/lewie9021/webpack-configurator)
and `gatsby.config.js`.

If we wanted to extract all of the css in our project into a since
`styles.css` file for production, we could add the
`ExtractTextWebpackPlugin`. To do this, we need to modify the loader
and add the plugin when generating the static html for our site.

```javascript
var ExtractTextPlugin = require("extract-text-webpack-plugin");

exports.modifyWebpackConfig = function(config, env) {
  if(env === 'static') {
    config.removeLoader('css');
    config.loader('css', function(cfg) {
      cfg.test = /\.css$/;
      cfg.loader = ExtractTextPlugin.extract('css?minimize');
      return cfg
    })
    config.plugin('extract-css',
                  ExtractTextPlugin,
                  ["styles.css", { allChunks: true }]);
  }
}
```

Each plugin (`extract-css` in the above example) can be a valid
[webpack plugin](https://webpack.github.io/docs/using-plugins.html)
and there are a host of
[preexisting plugins](https://webpack.github.io/docs/list-of-plugins.html)
which you can use to enhance Gatsby.

It is also possible to
[write your own plugins](https://webpack.github.io/docs/how-to-write-a-plugin.html).


### How to write your own wrappers
* Coming...

## FAQ

### I added a new page and it's not showing up!

[Webpack doesn't currently support hot-reloading new files added to a context](https://github.com/webpack/webpack/issues/1162). When you add a new file, restart the `gatsby develop` process and your new page will show up.

### Configuring Babel

Configuring babel-loader is as easy as creating a
[.babelrc](https://babeljs.io/docs/usage/babelrc/) in the root of the
project. To enable stage 0 transforms, the following `.babelrc` could
be used:

```javascript
{
  "stage": 0
}
```

### Deploying to Github Pages (and other hosts where your site's links need prefixes)
Gatsby supports automatically prefixing links with its `prefixLink` helper function.

To use simply import the function and run all links in your site
thorough it e.g.

```javascript
import { prefixLink } from 'gatsby-helpers'

prefixLink('/')
// During development this will return "/"
// When deployed to example.github.io/your-project/ this will return "/your-project/"
```

Set the prefix in your config file e.g. `linkPrefix = '/your-project'`

Then finally when building your site run `gatsby build --prefix-links`

The built site is now in `/public`. These files need copied to your
`gh-pages` branch and committed and pushed. You can do this manually or
use the handy [`gh-pages`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gh-pages) cli tool.

Both the sample sites are deployed to github pages and use link
prefixing. Read their source for more help:
[documentation](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-documentation)/[blog](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-blog).

### I have an existing site in (Wordpress|Drupal|Blogger|Tumblr|*), how do I convert it to Gatsby?
Jekyll has a comprehensive import tool for these and many other tools.
Once your pages are converted to markdown, change the file extensions to
`.md` from the `.markdown` the tool outputs and then use them in your
site.

Commit message:

Rename names for extensions files to gatsby-node and gatsby-browser fixes #215

README.md, after:

[![Travis CI Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/gatsbyjs/gatsby.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gatsbyjs/gatsby)
[![npm package](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/gatsby.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.org/package/gatsby)
[![gatsby channel on discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/discord-gatsby%40reactiflux-738bd7.svg?style=flat-square)](https://discord.gg/0ZcbPKXt5bVoxkfV)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/gatsbyjs.svg?style=social)](https://twitter.com/gatsbyjs)

# Gatsby
Transform plain text into dynamic blogs and websites using the latest
web technologies. A React.js static site generator.

Build sites like it's 1995. Files are translated into HTML pages at the
same position within the file system. Add a markdown file at `/docs/index.md` and
it'll be converted to `/docs/index.html`.

Supports Markdown, HTML, and React.js components out of the box. Easy to add
support for additional files types.

Leverages [React Router's "nested component
hierarchy"](https://github.com/rackt/react-router/blob/master/docs/Introduction.md)
to make templating incredibly intuitive.

All templates, css, and content are *hot reloadable*.

![live-reloading example](http://zippy.gfycat.com/UltimateWeeklyBarebirdbat.gif)

### Goals
* No-reload page transitions
* Hot reload editing. Tweak your pages, templates, and styles and see changes in
  real time.
* Make React.js component model and ecosystem available for building static sites
* Intuitive directory-based URLs. The URL of a page is derived from its
  spot on the file system.
* Support "Starters" — install starter sites directly from Github. Use open sourced
  starters or build your own.

## Sites built with Gatsby
* [bricolage.io](http://bricolage.io?utm_source=github.com) ([source](https://github.com/KyleAMathews/blog))
* [relaterocket.co](https://relaterocket.co?utm_source=github.com)
* [reindex.io](https://www.reindex.io)
* [syncano.io](https://www.syncano.io)
* [graphene-python.org](http://graphene-python.org/) ([source](https://github.com/graphql-python/graphene/tree/master/docs))
* [back-to-the-basics.io](http://back-to-the-basics.io/)
* [ashk.io](http://ashk.io/) ([source](https://github.com/wpioneer/mysites-blog))
* [nordnet.se/brand](https://www.nordnet.se/brand/)
* [likescoffee.com](http://likescoffee.com/) ([source](https://github.com/pamo/pamo.github.io/tree/development))
* [vii.campjs.com](http://vii.campjs.com/) ([source](https://github.com/campjs/campjs-vii))
* [Edit this file to add yours!](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/README.md)

### Why use Gatsby instead of other Static Site Generators
* No-refresh page transitions
* The awesome React.js component model
* Live editing on every part of your site. Dramatically speed development.

### I'm already building a server-rendered React.js site, is Gatsby a good fit?
If your site falls closer to the site end of the app<---->site spectrum
then yes.

Gatsby is an excellent fit for blogs, marketing sites, docs sites, etc. Proper web
apps should probably remain as normal web apps (though I'd love to be
proved wrong!).

### Warning!
Gatsby is not yet stable. APIs will break. Functionality is missing. It's
usable but if you plan on building with it, expect a rocky road for some time.

Contributions welcome!

## Getting started

### Install
`npm install -g gatsby`

### Usage
1. Create new Gatsby site `gatsby new my-test-gatsby-site` This creates the
   directory for your Gatsby project and adds the minimal files
   needed.
2. `cd my-test-gatsby-site`
3. `gatsby develop` — Gatsby will start a hot-reloading development
   server accessible at [localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000)
4. See the tutorial below for more.

### Gatsby Starters
The Gatsby cli tool lets you install "starters". These are
partially built sites preconfigured to help you get moving faster on
creating a certain type of site.

When creating a new site, you can optionally specify a starter to
base your new site on e.g. `gatsby new [SITE_DIRECTORY] [URL_OF_STARTER]`

For example, to quickly create a blog using Gatsby, you could install
the Gatsby Starter Blog by running:

`gatsby new blog https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-blog`

This downloads the files and initializes the site by running `npm
install`

If you don't specify a custom starter, your site will created
from the [default
starter](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-default).

There are several starters that have been created. Create a PR to
include yours!

* [Kitchen sink default starter](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-default) ([Demo](http://gatsbyjs.github.io/gatsby-starter-default/))
* [Simple blog](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-blog) ([Demo](http://gatsbyjs.github.io/gatsby-starter-blog/))
* [Simple documentation site](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-documentation) ([Demo](http://gatsbyjs.github.io/gatsby-starter-documentation/))

### Tutorial: Building a documentation site from the Gatsby Documentation Starter
1. Install gatsby `npm install -g gatsby`
1. Install documentation site starter `gatsby new docs-site
   gh:gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-documentation`
2. type `cd docs-site`
2. type `gatsby develop`
3. Open site in browser at [localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000). Verify clicking on links works.
4. Try editing the site's config file `config.toml`.
   Change the `siteTitle` key. The site's title should change shortly
   after saving.
5. Next try editing a doc page. Open
   `/pages/docs/getting-started/index.md` and edit it. Again any saved
   changes should load without refreshing in the browser.
6. Add a new markdown page to the documentation. Copy the `getting-started`
   directory to `some-additional-steps`. Then edit the markdown file
   within the new directory. If you're familiar with other static site
   generation software, you'll be familiar with the "frontmatter" at the
   top of the file. Edit the title there + change the order to "5". Save
   this. Ideally this new file would be hot reloaded like other changes
   but I haven't figured out how to make this happen yet ([help
   appreciated here](https://github.com/webpack/webpack/issues/1162)).
   So to see your new page, restart `gatsby develop` and then refresh your
   browser.
7. Build your site `gatsby build`. The site is built to the `/public`
   directory. Serve the site by going into the public directory and
   typing `python -m SimpleHTTPServer`

## How Gatsby works

### How files become pages
The process is file --> Webpack loader --> React.js wrapper component
--> static html page.

Gatsby leverages [Webpack](http://webpack.github.io/) extensively.
 Webpack is a sophisticated module bundler that can turn any sort of
file into a commonjs module. Webpack uses "Loaders" to convert a file
into a module. These loaded modules are then wrapped inside a react.js
component that's specific to a given file type. Gatsby then generates a
static html page from this component.

Gatsby ships with default loaders and wrappers for HTML, Markdown, and
JSX/CJSX but for most projects you'll want to write your own loaders and
wrappers (very easy to do).

As an example of how this process works, let's walk quickly through
converting a markdown file into an html page.

The [default Gatsby markdown
loader](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/lib/loaders/markdown-loader/index.js)
 parses the markdown into HTML and uses [Highlight.js](https://highlightjs.org/)
 to syntax highlight code blocks.

Our markdown file.

```markdown
---
title: This is a title
---

# Hi friends.
This is a markdown file.
```

When loaded and required, the resulting javascript object looks like the following:

```javascript
{
  file: {
    // Information about file on disk e.g. extension, directory path, etc.
  },
  data: {
    title: "This is a title",
    body: "<h1>Hi friends.</h1><p>This is a markdown file</p>"
  }
}

```
Now Gatsby wraps the markdown file in this very simple React.js component.

```javascript
module.exports = React.createClass({
  displayName: "MarkdownWrapper",

  render: function() {
    var post = this.props.route.page.data

    return <div className="markdown">
      <h1>{post.title}</h1>
      <div dangerouslySetInnerHTML={{__html: post.body}}/>
    </div>
  }
})
```

### Structure of a Gatsby site
* `config.toml` - Core application configuration is stored here. Available via a `require`
or `import` of 'config'. Values:
  * `noProductionJavascript` - set to a truthy value to prevent generation of bundle.js
  (containing your client-side Single Page App) during a `gatbsy build`. You'll need
  to update your top-level `html.js` file so that it doesn't pull in `bundle.js` in
  production, but you'll want to keep it for `gatsby develop` mode.
* `/pages` - All pages go here. Everything is turned into a page except
files which start with an underscore:
  * `_template` files under `/pages` are treated as parent templates for other pages in
  the same directory tree.
  * (optional) `pages/404.js` or `pages/404.html` - automatically picked up as your 'not
  found' page. If you `<Link>` to an unknown URL, this page will be shown. Note: in
  production, you'll need to [set up your server host to show this page when it can't find
  the requested file](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/pull/121#issuecomment-194715068).
* (optional) `post-build.js` - a `function(pages, cb)` you can provide to do final
processing on all generated content.
* (optional) `gatsby-browser.js` - a way to hook into key application events. Export
`onRouteChange` of type `function(location)` to be notified whenever React-Router
navigates.

### How to use your own webpack loaders

Gatsby uses [webpack-configurator](https://github.com/lewie9021/webpack-configurator)
to make changing the webpack loaders easy. The default set of loaders is organized by [key](lib/utils/webpack.config.js#L125).

Gatsby uses `gatsby-node.js` to pass control to the user before
resolving the final webpack configuration. `gatsby-node.js` should
live in the root of your project and export a function which accepts a
webpack-configurator config object and an environment string. The
environment string will be one of `develop`, `static` or
`production`.

Create a `gatsby-node.js` in the root of your project:

```javascript
exports.modifyWebpackConfig = function(config, env) {
  // edit loaders here
  return config;
}
```

Consider the following example which removes the default css loader
and replaces it with a loader that uses css-modules.

```javascript
exports.modifyWebpackConfig = function(config, env) {
  config.removeLoader('css');
  config.loader('css', function(cfg) {
    cfg.test = /\.css$/;
    cfg.loader = 'style!css?modules'
    return cfg
  })
  return config;
};
```

Each loader (`cfg` in the above example) can be a valid
[webpack loader](https://webpack.github.io/docs/configuration.html#module-loaders)
and there are a host of
[preexisting loaders](https://webpack.github.io/docs/list-of-loaders.html)
which you can use to enhance Gatsby.

It is also possible to [write your own loaders](https://webpack.github.io/docs/how-to-write-a-loader.html).

Gatsby includes [some default loaders](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/tree/master/lib/loaders) that you can also override.

To write your own loader or override a Gatsby loader, make a `loaders` directory at the root of your site that contains directories for custom loaders.

e.g. `loaders/markdown-loader/index.js` [will take precedence](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/lib/utils/webpack.config.js#L325)
over the markdown-loader that Gatsby includes.

[See an example of a custom loader in the default starter](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-default/blob/master/loaders/markdown-loader/index.js).

### How to use your own webpack plugins

Similar to the loaders, plugins are handled via
[webpack-configurator](https://github.com/lewie9021/webpack-configurator)
and `gatsby-node.js`.

If we wanted to extract all of the css in our project into a since
`styles.css` file for production, we could add the
`ExtractTextWebpackPlugin`. To do this, we need to modify the loader
and add the plugin when generating the static html for our site.

```javascript
var ExtractTextPlugin = require("extract-text-webpack-plugin");

exports.modifyWebpackConfig = function(config, env) {
  if(env === 'static') {
    config.removeLoader('css');
    config.loader('css', function(cfg) {
      cfg.test = /\.css$/;
      cfg.loader = ExtractTextPlugin.extract('css?minimize');
      return cfg
    })
    config.plugin('extract-css',
                  ExtractTextPlugin,
                  ["styles.css", { allChunks: true }]);
  }
}
```

Each plugin (`extract-css` in the above example) can be a valid
[webpack plugin](https://webpack.github.io/docs/using-plugins.html)
and there are a host of
[preexisting plugins](https://webpack.github.io/docs/list-of-plugins.html)
which you can use to enhance Gatsby.

It is also possible to
[write your own plugins](https://webpack.github.io/docs/how-to-write-a-plugin.html).


### How to write your own wrappers
* Coming...

## FAQ

### I added a new page and it's not showing up!

[Webpack doesn't currently support hot-reloading new files added to a context](https://github.com/webpack/webpack/issues/1162). When you add a new file, restart the `gatsby develop` process and your new page will show up.

### Configuring Babel

Configuring babel-loader is as easy as creating a
[.babelrc](https://babeljs.io/docs/usage/babelrc/) in the root of the
project. To enable stage 0 transforms, the following `.babelrc` could
be used:

```javascript
{
  "stage": 0
}
```

### Deploying to Github Pages (and other hosts where your site's links need prefixes)
Gatsby supports automatically prefixing links with its `prefixLink` helper function.

To use simply import the function and run all links in your site
thorough it e.g.

```javascript
import { prefixLink } from 'gatsby-helpers'

prefixLink('/')
// During development this will return "/"
// When deployed to example.github.io/your-project/ this will return "/your-project/"
```

Set the prefix in your config file e.g. `linkPrefix = '/your-project'`

Then finally when building your site run `gatsby build --prefix-links`

The built site is now in `/public`. These files need copied to your
`gh-pages` branch and committed and pushed. You can do this manually or
use the handy [`gh-pages`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gh-pages) cli tool.

Both the sample sites are deployed to github pages and use link
prefixing. Read their source for more help:
[documentation](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-documentation)/[blog](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-starter-blog).

### I have an existing site in (Wordpress|Drupal|Blogger|Tumblr|*), how do I convert it to Gatsby?
Jekyll has a comprehensive import tool for these and many other tools.
Once your pages are converted to markdown, change the file extensions to
`.md` from the `.markdown` the tool outputs and then use them in your
site.
