docs/contributing/translation/new-translations.md, before:

---
title: Starting a New Translation
---

This page lists the steps to take to create a new Gatsby docs translation.

## Creating a translation

### Read the maintainer guide

Before requesting a new translation, make sure to read the [maintainer responsibilities](/contributing/translation/maintainers/#maintainer-responsibilities) to affirm that you accept the responsibilities of being a translation maintainer.

### Check other issues

Before creating a new issue, make sure to check the list of [open translation requests](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+%22New+Translation+Request%22). If one already exists for your language, ask to be added to the list of maintainers there.

### Create a translation request issue

If you don't see the language among the issues listed, feel free to create a new [translation request issue](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/new?template=new_translation.md) for it and follow the instructions.

### Finding codeowners

For a new translation, open an issue with information about your intended language. If you already have co-contributors to act as fellow [code owners](https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/about-code-owners) and provide checks and balances for PR reviews and quality assurance, that would be very helpful! Otherwise, you can check out other [translation request issues](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+%22New+Translation+Request%22) people have made and offer to join, or [get in touch with us](/contributing/how-to-contribute/#not-sure-how-to-start-contributing) at Gatsby for help in building your translation team.

## Criteria for translation approval

The Gatsby team will choose to approve a translation request based on the following criteria:

- Are there at least two maintainers listed?
- Do at least one of the maintainers have previous open-source experience and experience working with GitHub and git?
- Are the maintainers fluent speakers? Maintainers do not need to have experience translating, but must be fluent enough in the language to be able to translate technical writing.

## After approval

Once the translation request is approved, a member of the gatsby team will run the an automated script to create your repository and set everything up.

At this point, you and your co-maintainers should read the rest of the [maintainer guide](/contributing/translation/maintainers/) for more information on how to manage your translation repository. You can also check out the [translation contributor guide](/contributing/translation/translators/) for information on contributing translations to your own repo, and start working on your translation [style guide](/contributing/translation/style-guide/).

Commit message:

docs(contributing): update docs with info about translations being on hold  (#31883) (#32328)
* Docs | Update Community.md and contributing/translation with info about translations being on hold

* fix: typo

Co-authored-by: Megan Sullivan <meganesulli@gmail.com>

docs/contributing/translation/new-translations.md, after:

---
title: Starting a New Translation
---

> ⚠️ Note: At the moment our localization efforts are on pause, as we shifted towards a [redesign of the docs](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/blog/announcing-new-gatsby-docs-site/). Right now, we're prioritizing a new version of the tutorial. As with all prioritization efforts, we will weigh this, amongst other potential features, fixes, and improvements, and may consider picking up on the internationalization efforts of 2020. The repositories inside the GitHub org will remain. For now we archived the respective language channels on our Discord and the role for language maintainers.

This page lists the steps to take to create a new Gatsby docs translation.

## Creating a translation

### Read the maintainer guide

Before requesting a new translation, make sure to read the [maintainer responsibilities](/contributing/translation/maintainers/#maintainer-responsibilities) to affirm that you accept the responsibilities of being a translation maintainer.

### Check other issues

Before creating a new issue, make sure to check the list of [open translation requests](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+%22New+Translation+Request%22). If one already exists for your language, ask to be added to the list of maintainers there.

### Create a translation request issue

If you don't see the language among the issues listed, feel free to create a new [translation request issue](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/new?template=new_translation.md) for it and follow the instructions.

### Finding codeowners

For a new translation, open an issue with information about your intended language. If you already have co-contributors to act as fellow [code owners](https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/about-code-owners) and provide checks and balances for PR reviews and quality assurance, that would be very helpful! Otherwise, you can check out other [translation request issues](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+%22New+Translation+Request%22) people have made and offer to join, or [get in touch with us](/contributing/how-to-contribute/#not-sure-how-to-start-contributing) at Gatsby for help in building your translation team.

## Criteria for translation approval

The Gatsby team will choose to approve a translation request based on the following criteria:

- Are there at least two maintainers listed?
- Do at least one of the maintainers have previous open-source experience and experience working with GitHub and git?
- Are the maintainers fluent speakers? Maintainers do not need to have experience translating, but must be fluent enough in the language to be able to translate technical writing.

## After approval

Once the translation request is approved, a member of the gatsby team will run the an automated script to create your repository and set everything up.

At this point, you and your co-maintainers should read the rest of the [maintainer guide](/contributing/translation/maintainers/) for more information on how to manage your translation repository. You can also check out the [translation contributor guide](/contributing/translation/translators/) for information on contributing translations to your own repo, and start working on your translation [style guide](/contributing/translation/style-guide/).
