---
title: Keeping Translations Up-to-date
---

Periodically, gatsbybot will update your translation repo to be up-to-date with the current English repo. If there is an update to a page that is already translated, gatsbybot will create a pull request listing the conflicts between translation and the new English content. Resolving these conflicts and merging these pull requests is essential to keeping your translation repo up-to-date.

## Resolving sync pull requests

The PRs generated by gatsbybot will list files that have conflicts between translated content and English content. These updates will appear as Git conflict markers (`<<<<<<<`).

You may resolve these conflicts however you feel comfortable: through the GitHub UI, from the command line, or with a code editor like VS Code. See the [Common types of merge issues](#common-types-of-merge-issues) section for how to resolve various conflicts.

## Manually syncing translation repos

If for whatever reason you'd like to manually sync your translation repo, you can do so by running these commands:

```shell
git remote add source https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-i18n-source.git
git pull source master
```

Fix all [merge conflicts](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/resolving-a-merge-conflict-using-the-command-line) and create a pull request to finish the merge.

## Common types of merge issues

### Typos fixes

Sometimes there is a typo or grammatical error in the English source that gets fixed in an update.

```diff
- Let's all use Gabsty!
+ Let's all use Gatsby!
```

```diff
- Gatsby is awesome framework!
+ Gatsby is an awesome framework!
```

Since these typos most likely don't exist in the translated version, you can most likely use the translated version as-is.

### Formatting changes

Sometimes the only difference is a change in formatting, such as adding back-ticks to annotate something as code, or changing the level of headings:

```diff
- Sass files have the extension .scss.
+ Sass files have the extension `.scss`.
```

```diff
- #### Formatting changes
+ ### Formatting changes
```

The only necessary change is to ensure the translated content carries over these formatting updates.

### Link updates

These changes involve updating the URL of a link:

```diff
- Please see our [plugins page](/packages).
+ Please see our [plugins page](/plugins).
```

```diff
- Check out our [GitHub](http://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby)
+ Check out our [GitHub](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby)
```

Resolve these changes by updating the link.

### Content changes

Sometimes, the content of the source page is actually updated and needs a translation. Make sure to read the change carefully and change the translation to match its meaning.

### Content additions

Sometimes pages is updated with additional paragraphs, lists, or other content.

```diff
-In English, your articles should use the second person ("you") to provide a conversational tone. This way, the text and instructions seem to speak directly to the person reading it. Try to avoid using the first person ("I", "we", "let's", and "us").

+In English, your articles should use the second person ("you") to provide a conversational tone. This way, the text and instructions seem to speak directly to the person reading it. Try to avoid using the first person ("I", "we", "let's", and "us").
+For other languages, refer to each translation's guidelines (if applicable) for consistent phrasing. When appropriate, we suggest starting with the informal "you" to keep a conversational tone.
```

In this case, the new content should be translated as with any other content. If there is a significant amount of new content, you may want to create a separate pull request to translate it.
