packages/gatsby-remark-custom-blocks/README.md, before:

# gatsby-remark-custom-blocks

Adds custom blocks to `MarkdownRemark` using [remark-custom-blocks](https://github.com/zestedesavoir/zmarkdown/tree/master/packages/remark-custom-blocks).

Unlike in [gatsby-remark-component](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-remark-component/) where you can only use HTML within the custom component tag, custom blocks allow you to use markdown within the block.

## Install

`npm install gatsby-remark-custom-blocks`

## How to use

The configuration object for custom blocks follows this specification:

```javascript
trigger: {
  classes: String, space-separated classes, optional, default: ''
  title: String, 'optional' | 'required', optional, default: custom titles not allowed
  details: boolean, optional, default: false
}
```

Here is an example of how you can implement custom blocks in your `gatsby-config.js` file:

```javascript
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
    options: {
      plugins: [
        {
          resolve: "gatsby-remark-custom-blocks",
          options: {
            blocks: {
              danger: {
                classes: "danger",
              },
              info: {
                classes: "info",
                title: "optional",
              },
            },
          },
        },
      ],
    },
  },
]
```

Use the following Markdown syntax to create blocks in your file:

```markdown
[[danger]]
| content

[[info | This is a title!]]
| content
```

This will generate the following html:

```html
<div class="custom-block danger">
  <div class="custom-block-body"><p>content</p></div>
</div>

<div class="custom-block info">
  <div class="custom-block-heading">This is a title!</div>
  <div class="custom-block-body"><p>content</p></div>
</div>
```

The `title` configuration option can be passed either `optional` or `required`. When the required option is set in your `gatsby-config.js` the custom block will not be rendered if there is not a title argument in your markdown.

If you set the `details` configuration option to `true` the outer `<div>` will be changed to a [details](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/details) tag. If you have a title set, the title will be used as the [summary](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/summary).

Here is an example configuration for using details:

```javascript
  blocks: {
    danger: {
      classes: "danger",
      details: true,
    },
    info: {
      title: "optional",
      details: true,
    },
  },
```

And here is the html output considering the same markdown as before:

```html
<details class="custom-block danger">
  <div class="custom-block-body"><p>content</p></div>
</details>

<details class="custom-block">
  <summary class="custom-block-heading">This is a title!</summary>
  <div class="custom-block-body"><p>content</p></div>
</details>
```

Commit message:

gatsby-remark-custom-blocks: incompatibility notice

packages/gatsby-remark-custom-blocks/README.md, after:

# gatsby-remark-custom-blocks

> **Note**: this plugin is incompatible with `gatsby-transformer-remark@^4.0.0`
> because the upstream [`remark-custom-blocks`](https://github.com/zestedesavoir/zmarkdown/tree/master/packages/remark-custom-blocks)
> package is not upgraded to remark 13 yet.
>
> The work on upgrading to remark 13 is in progress, so follow [this issue](https://github.com/zestedesavoir/zmarkdown/issues/416)
> for updates.
>
> The latest compatible version is `gatsby-transformer-remark@3.2.0`.

Adds custom blocks to `MarkdownRemark` using [remark-custom-blocks](https://github.com/zestedesavoir/zmarkdown/tree/master/packages/remark-custom-blocks).

Unlike in [gatsby-remark-component](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-remark-component/) where you can only use HTML within the custom component tag, custom blocks allow you to use markdown within the block.

## Install

`npm install gatsby-remark-custom-blocks`

## How to use

The configuration object for custom blocks follows this specification:

```javascript
trigger: {
  classes: String, space-separated classes, optional, default: ''
  title: String, 'optional' | 'required', optional, default: custom titles not allowed
  details: boolean, optional, default: false
}
```

Here is an example of how you can implement custom blocks in your `gatsby-config.js` file:

```javascript
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
    options: {
      plugins: [
        {
          resolve: "gatsby-remark-custom-blocks",
          options: {
            blocks: {
              danger: {
                classes: "danger",
              },
              info: {
                classes: "info",
                title: "optional",
              },
            },
          },
        },
      ],
    },
  },
]
```

Use the following Markdown syntax to create blocks in your file:

```markdown
[[danger]]
| content

[[info | This is a title!]]
| content
```

This will generate the following html:

```html
<div class="custom-block danger">
  <div class="custom-block-body"><p>content</p></div>
</div>

<div class="custom-block info">
  <div class="custom-block-heading">This is a title!</div>
  <div class="custom-block-body"><p>content</p></div>
</div>
```

The `title` configuration option can be passed either `optional` or `required`. When the required option is set in your `gatsby-config.js` the custom block will not be rendered if there is not a title argument in your markdown.

If you set the `details` configuration option to `true` the outer `<div>` will be changed to a [details](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/details) tag. If you have a title set, the title will be used as the [summary](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/summary).

Here is an example configuration for using details:

```javascript
  blocks: {
    danger: {
      classes: "danger",
      details: true,
    },
    info: {
      title: "optional",
      details: true,
    },
  },
```

And here is the html output considering the same markdown as before:

```html
<details class="custom-block danger">
  <div class="custom-block-body"><p>content</p></div>
</details>

<details class="custom-block">
  <summary class="custom-block-heading">This is a title!</summary>
  <div class="custom-block-body"><p>content</p></div>
</details>
```
