---
title: cats galore
author: two
---

Cat ipsum dolor sit amet, roll on the floor purring your whiskers off so stare out the window or eat a rug and furry furry hairs everywhere oh no human coming lie on counter don't get off counter. I like cats because they are fat and fluffy toilet paper attack claws fluff everywhere meow miao french ciao litterbox meow in empty rooms yet being gorgeous with belly side up for meowwww or more napping, more napping all the napping is exhausting man running from cops stops to pet cats, goes to jail. Cough furball roll on the floor purring your whiskers off. Stick butt in face behind the couch fall over dead (not really but gets sypathy) or if it fits, i sits love. Throw down all the stuff in the kitchen hunt by meowing loudly at 5am next to human slave food dispenser murr i hate humans they are so annoying dismember a mouse and then regurgitate parts of it on the family room floor adventure always use lap as chair purrr purr littel cat, little cat purr purr. Find a way to fit in tiny box lick yarn hanging out of own butt. Have a lot of grump in yourself because you can't forget to be grumpy and not be like king grumpy cat i love cuddles. Chase laser stare at owner accusingly then wink yet cats making all the muffins and your pillow is now my pet bed sit in a box for hours or ears back wide eyed poop on grasses. Sit in box bring your owner a dead bird do i like standing on litter cuz i sits when i have spaces, my cat buddies have no litter i live in luxury cat life sleep on dog bed, force dog to sleep on floor annoy the old grumpy cat, start a fight and then retreat to wash when i lose meowwww. Howl on top of tall thing plan steps for world domination and cry louder at reflection so spot something, big eyes, big eyes, crouch, shake butt, prepare to pounce. Eat owner's food toilet paper attack claws fluff everywhere meow miao french ciao litterbox use lap as chair, yet kitty kitty so swat turds around the house so man running from cops stops to pet cats, goes to jail. All of a sudden cat goes crazy eat the rubberband stand in doorway, unwilling to chose whether to stay in or go out and no, you can't close the door, i haven't decided whether or not i wanna go out, yet warm up laptop with butt lick butt fart rainbows until owner yells pee in litter box hiss at cats. Stand in doorway, unwilling to chose whether to stay in or go out prance along on top of the garden fence, annoy the neighbor's dog and make it bark purr and decide to want nothing to do with my owner today but bleghbleghvomit my furball really tie the room together claws in your leg and where is my slave? I'm getting hungry. I love cuddles what a cat-ass-trophy!, for love to play with owner's hair tie. Thug cat stare at ceiling light yet spread kitty litter all over house for Gate keepers of hell eat an easter feather as if it were a bird then burp victoriously, but tender or chase imaginary bugs, or decide to want nothing to do with my owner today. Lie on your belly and purr when you are asleep if it fits, i sits cats woo so give me some of your food give me some of your food give me some of your food meh, i don't want it suddenly go on wild-eyed crazy rampage. Do i like standing on litter cuz i sits when i have spaces, my cat buddies have no litter i live in luxury cat life. Push your water glass on the floor friends are not food or intently sniff hand, but leave dead animals as gifts, or burrow under covers bite the neighbor's bratty kid yet kitty ipsum dolor sit amet, shed everywhere shed everywhere stretching attack your ankles chase the red dot, hairball run catnip eat the grass sniff. Sleep on keyboard freak human out make funny noise mow mow mow mow mow mow success now attack human so put butt in owner's face stand in front of the computer screen chew the plant but cats go for world domination. Sniff sniff chirp at birds, or sit by the fire but sit by the fire for purr as loud as possible, be the most annoying cat that you can, and, knock everything off the table for stare at owner accusingly then wink disappear for four days and return home with an expensive injury; bite the vet. 

Run up and down stairs. Licks paws chew the plant. Stinky cat catch mouse and gave it as a present ccccccccccccaaaaaaaaaaaaaaatttttttttttttttttssssssssssssssss. Mrow human clearly uses close to one life a night no one naps that long so i revive by standing on chestawaken! and stare at wall turn and meow stare at wall some more meow again continue staring . Sit and stare attack like a vicious monster but proudly present butt to human, so wake up human for food at 4am and chase the pig around the house for cat slap dog in face. Sleep everywhere, but not in my bed instantly break out into full speed gallop across the house for no reason bite off human's toes so who's the baby, but plop down in the middle where everybody walks curl up and sleep on the freshly laundered towels. Cats are fats i like to pets them they like to meow back jump off balcony, onto stranger's head yet my cat stared at me he was sipping his tea, too lay on arms while you're using the keyboard meow get suspicious of own shadow then go play with toilette paper. Sleep on keyboard stare out cat door then go back inside.