packages/gatsby-source-shopify/README.md, before:

# gatsby-source-shopify

Source plugin for pulling data into [Gatsby][gatsby] from [Shopify][shopify]
stores via the [Shopify Storefront API][shopify-storefront-api].

## Features

- Provides public shop data available via the [Shopify Storefront API][shopify-storefront-api]
- Supports `gatsby-transformer-sharp` and `gatsby-image` for product and
  article images

## Install

```shell
npm install gatsby-source-shopify
```

## How to use

[See the Shopify tutorial on gatsbyjs.com for a full getting started guide](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/building-an-ecommerce-site-with-shopify/)

Ensure you have an access token for the [Shopify Storefront API][shopify-storefront-api]. The token should have the following permissions:

- Read products, variants, and collections
- Read product tags
- Read content like articles, blogs, and comments

Then in your `gatsby-config.js` add the following config to enable this plugin:

```js
plugins: [
  /*
   * Gatsby's data processing layer begins with “source”
   * plugins. Here the site sources its data from Shopify.
   */
  {
    resolve: "gatsby-source-shopify",
    options: {
      // The domain name of your Shopify shop. This is required.
      // Example: 'gatsby-source-shopify-test-shop' if your Shopify address is
      // 'gatsby-source-shopify-test-shop.myshopify.com'.
      // If you are running your shop on a custom domain, you need to use that
      // as the shop name, without a trailing slash, for example:
      // shopName: "gatsby-shop.com",
      shopName: "gatsby-source-shopify-test-shop",

      // An API access token to your Shopify shop. This is required.
      // You can generate an access token in the "Manage private apps" section
      // of your shop's Apps settings. In the Storefront API section, be sure
      // to select "Allow this app to access your storefront data using the
      // Storefront API".
      // See: https://help.shopify.com/api/custom-storefronts/storefront-api/getting-started#authentication
      accessToken: "example-wou7evoh0eexuf6chooz2jai2qui9pae4tieph1sei4deiboj",

      // Set the API version you want to use. For a list of available API versions,
      // see: https://help.shopify.com/en/api/storefront-api/reference/queryroot
      // Defaults to 2019-07
      apiVersion: "2020-01",

      // Set verbose to true to display a verbose output on `npm run develop`
      // or `npm run build`. This prints which nodes are being fetched and how
      // much time was required to fetch and process the data.
      // Defaults to true.
      verbose: true,

      // Number of records to fetch on each request when building the cache
      // at startup. If your application encounters timeout errors during
      // startup, try decreasing this number.
      paginationSize: 250,

      // List of collections you want to fetch.
      // Possible values are: 'shop' and 'content'.
      // Defaults to ['shop', 'content'].
      includeCollections: ["shop", "content"],
      // Download Images Locally
      // set to false if you plan on using shopify's CDN
      downloadImages: true,

      // Allow overriding the default queries
      // This allows you to include/exclude extra fields when sourcing nodes
      // Available keys are: articles, blogs, collections, products, shopPolicies, and pages
      // Queries need to accept arguments for first and after
      // You will need to include all the fields you want available for a
      // specific key. View the `shopifyQueries Defaults` section below for a
      // full list of keys and fields.
      shopifyQueries: {
        products: `
          query GetProducts($first: Int!, $after: String) {
            products(first: $first, after: $after) {
              pageInfo {
                hasNextPage
              }
              edges {
                cursor
                node {
                  availableForSale
                }
              }
            }
          }
        `,
      },
    },
  },
]
```

NOTE: By default, all metafields are private. In order to pull metafields,
you must first [expose the metafield to the Storefront API](https://help.shopify.com/en/api/guides/metafields/storefront-api-metafields#expose-metafields-to-the-storefront-api).

## How to query

You can query nodes created from Shopify using GraphQL like the following:

**Note**: Learn to use the GraphQL tool and Ctrl+Spacebar at
`http://localhost:8000/___graphql` to discover the types and properties of your
GraphQL model.

```graphql
{
  allShopifyProduct {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        title
        handle
        productType
        vendor
        variants {
          id
          title
          price
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

All Shopify data is pulled using the [Shopify Storefront
API][shopify-storefront-api]. Data is made available in the same structure as
provided by the API, with a few exceptions noted below.

The following data types are available:

| Name               | Description                                                                                                           |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Article**        | A blog entry.                                                                                                         |
| **Blog**           | Collection of articles.                                                                                               |
| **Comment**        | A comment on a blog entry.                                                                                            |
| **Collection**     | Represents a grouping of products that a shop owner can create to organize them or make their shops easier to browse. |
| **Product**        | Represents an individual item for sale in a Shopify store.                                                            |
| **ProductOption**  | Custom product property names.                                                                                        |
| **ProductVariant** | Represents a different version of a product, such as differing sizes or differing colors.                             |
| **ShopPolicy**     | Policy that a merchant has configured for their store, such as their refund or privacy policy.                        |
| **ShopDetails**    | Name, description and money format that a merchant has configured for their store.                                    |

For each data type listed above, `shopify${typeName}` and
`allShopify${typeName}` is made available. Nodes that are closely related, such
as `Article` and `Comment`, are provided as node fields as described below.

**Note**: The following examples are not a complete reference to the available
fields for each node. Utilize Gatsby's built-in GraphQL tool to discover the
types and properties available.

### Query articles

The associated blog data is provided on the `blog` field. Article comments are
provided on the `comments` field.

```graphql
{
  allShopifyArticle {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        author {
          email
          name
        }
        blog {
          title
        }
        comments {
          id
          author {
            email
            name
          }
          contentHtml
        }
        contentHtml
        publishedAt(formatString: "ddd, MMMM Do, YYYY")
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Query blogs

Blog data is provided on the `blog` field on `Article`, but it can be queried
directly like the following:

```graphql
{
  allShopifyBlog {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        title
        url
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Query article comments

Comments are provided on the `comments` field on `Article`, but they can be
queried directly like the following:

```graphql
{
  allShopifyComment {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        author {
          email
          name
        }
        contentHtml
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Query product collections

Products in the collection are provided on the `products` field.

```graphql
{
  allShopifyCollection {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        descriptionHtml
        handle
        image {
          src
          alt
        }
        products {
          id
          handle
          title
        }
        title
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Query products

Product variants and options are provided on the `variants` and `options`
fields.

```graphql
{
  allShopifyProduct {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        descriptionHtml
        handle
        images {
          originalSrc
        }
        variants {
          id
          availableForSale
          image {
            originalSrc
          }
          price
          selectedOptions {
            name
            value
          }
          sku
          title
        }
        title
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Query product options

Product options are provided on the `options` field on `Product`, but they can
be queried directly like the following:

```graphql
{
  allShopifyProductOption {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        name
        values
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Query product variants

Product variants are provided on the `variants` field on `Product`, but they
can be queried directly like the following:

```graphql
{
  allShopifyProductVariant {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        availableForSale
        image {
          originalSrc
        }
        price
        selectedOptions {
          name
          value
        }
        sku
        title
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Query shop policies

Shop policies include the following types:

- Privacy Policy (`privacyPolicy`)
- Refund Policy (`refundPolicy`)
- Terms of Service (`termsOfService`)

The type of policy is provided on the `type` field. Policies can be queried
like the following:

```graphql
{
  allShopifyShopPolicy {
    edges {
      node {
        body
        title
        type
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Query pages

Shopify merchants can create pages to hold static HTML content.

```graphql
{
  allShopifyPage {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        handle
        title
        body
        bodySummary
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Query shop details

Shopify merchants can give their shop a name, description and a money format.

```graphql
{
  shopifyShop {
    name
    description
    moneyFormat
  }
}
```

### Image processing

To use image processing you need `gatsby-transformer-sharp`,
`gatsby-plugin-sharp`, and their dependencies `gatsby-image` and
`gatsby-source-filesystem` in your `gatsby-config.js`.

You can apply image processing to any image field on a node. Image processing
of inline images added to description fields is currently not supported.

To access image processing in your queries, you need to use this pattern, where
`...ImageFragment` is one of the [`gatsby-transformer-sharp`
fragments][gatsby-image-fragments]:

```graphql
{
  allShopifyProduct {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        images {
          localFile {
            childImageSharp {
              ...ImageFragment
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Full example:

```graphql
{
  allShopifyProduct {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        images {
          localFile {
            childImageSharp {
              resolutions(width: 500, height: 300) {
                ...GatsbyImageSharpResolutions_withWebp
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

To learn more about image processing, check the documentation of
[gatsby-plugin-sharp][gatsby-plugin-sharp].

## Site's `gatsby-node.js` example

```js
const path = require("path")

exports.createPages = async ({ graphql, actions }) => {
  const { createPage } = actions

  const pages = await graphql(`
    {
      allShopifyProduct {
        edges {
          node {
            id
            handle
          }
        }
      }
    }
  `)

  pages.data.allShopifyProduct.edges.forEach(edge => {
    createPage({
      path: `/${edge.node.handle}`,
      component: path.resolve("./src/templates/product.js"),
      context: {
        id: edge.node.id,
      },
    })
  })
}
```

## shopifyQueries Defaults

The following can be used in gatsby-config.js to override the default queries.

```js
shopifyQueries: {
  articles: `
    query GetArticles($first: Int!, $after: String) {
      articles(first: $first, after: $after) {
        pageInfo {
          hasNextPage
        }
        edges {
          cursor
          node {
            author {
              bio
              email
              firstName
              lastName
              name
            }
            blog {
              id
            }
            comments(first: 250) {
              edges {
                node {
                  author {
                    email
                    name
                  }
                  content
                  contentHtml
                  id
                }
              }
            }
            content
            contentHtml
            excerpt
            excerptHtml
            id
            handle
            image {
              altText
              id
              src
            }
            publishedAt
            tags
            title
            url
            seo {
              title
              description
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  `,
  blogs: `
    query GetBlogs($first: Int!, $after: String) {
      blogs(first: $first, after: $after) {
        pageInfo {
          hasNextPage
        }
        edges {
          cursor
          node {
            id
            handle
            title
            url
          }
        }
      }
    }
  `,
  collections: `
    query GetCollections($first: Int!, $after: String) {
      collections(first: $first, after: $after) {
        pageInfo {
          hasNextPage
        }
        edges {
          cursor
          node {
            description
            descriptionHtml
            handle
            id
            image {
              altText
              id
              src
            }
            products(first: 250) {
              edges {
                node {
                  id
                }
              }
            }
            title
            updatedAt
          }
        }
      }
    }
  `,
  products: `
    query GetProducts($first: Int!, $after: String) {
      products(first: $first, after: $after) {
        pageInfo {
          hasNextPage
        }
        edges {
          cursor
          node {
            availableForSale
            createdAt
            description
            descriptionHtml
            handle
            id
            images(first: 250) {
              edges {
                node {
                  id
                  altText
                  originalSrc
                }
              }
            }
            metafields(first: 250) {
              edges {
                node {
                  description
                  id
                  key
                  namespace
                  value
                  valueType
                }
              }
            }
            onlineStoreUrl
            options {
              id
              name
              values
            }
            priceRange {
              minVariantPrice {
                amount
                currencyCode
              }
              maxVariantPrice {
                amount
                currencyCode
              }
            }
            productType
            publishedAt
            tags
            title
            updatedAt
            variants(first: 250) {
              edges {
                node {
                  availableForSale
                  compareAtPrice
                  compareAtPriceV2 {
                    amount
                    currencyCode
                  }
                  id
                  image {
                    altText
                    id
                    originalSrc
                  }
                  metafields(first: 250) {
                    edges {
                      node {
                        description
                        id
                        key
                        namespace
                        value
                        valueType
                      }
                    }
                  }
                  price
                  priceV2 {
                    amount
                    currencyCode
                  }
                  requiresShipping
                  selectedOptions {
                    name
                    value
                  }
                  sku
                  title
                  weight
                  weightUnit
                  presentmentPrices(first: 250) {
                    edges {
                      node {
                        price {
                          amount
                          currencyCode
                        }
                        compareAtPrice {
                          amount
                          currencyCode
                        }
                      }
                    }
                  }
                }
              }
            }
            vendor
          }
        }
      }
    }
  `,
  shopPolicies: `
    query GetPolicies {
      shop {
        privacyPolicy {
          body
          id
          title
          url
        }
        refundPolicy {
          body
          id
          title
          url
        }
        termsOfService {
          body
          id
          title
          url
        }
      }
    }
  `,
  pages: `
    query GetPages($first: Int!, $after: String) {
      pages(first: $first, after: $after) {
        pageInfo {
          hasNextPage
        }
        edges {
          cursor
          node {
            id
            handle
            title
            body
            bodySummary
            updatedAt
            url
          }
        }
      }
    }
  `,
},
```

## A note on customer information

Not all Shopify nodes have been implemented as they are not necessary for the
static portion of a Gatsby-generated website. This includes any node that
contains sensitive customer-specific information, such as `Order` and
`Payment`.

If you are in need of this data (e.g. building a private, internal website),
please open an issue. Until then, the nodes will not be implemented to lessen
the chances of someone accidentally making private information publicly
available.

[gatsby]: https://www.gatsbyjs.org/
[shopify]: https://www.shopify.com/
[shopify-storefront-api]: https://help.shopify.com/api/custom-storefronts/storefront-api
[graphql-inline-fragments]: https://graphql.org/learn/queries/#inline-fragments
[gatsby-plugin-sharp]: https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp
[gatsby-image-fragments]: https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/packages/gatsby-image#gatsby-transformer-sharp

Commit message:

Updates Shopify README
Helps users use the latest Shopify source plugin (until it's merged into the monorepo)

packages/gatsby-source-shopify/README.md, after:

# 📣 Looking for the latest version of `gatsby-source-shopify`?

👉  Get started at [`gatsbyjs/gatsby-source-shopify`](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby-source-shopify)
* Support for incremental builds
* Scale up to 10k products
* Up to 16x faster builds

`gatsbyjs/gatsby-source-shopify` will replace the below package with the next minor release of `gatsbyjs/gatsby`.

---

## Legacy source plugin instructions:

Source plugin for pulling data into [Gatsby][gatsby] from [Shopify][shopify]
stores via the [Shopify Storefront API][shopify-storefront-api].

## Features

- Provides public shop data available via the [Shopify Storefront API][shopify-storefront-api]
- Supports `gatsby-transformer-sharp` and `gatsby-image` for product and
  article images

## Install

```shell
npm install gatsby-source-shopify
```

## How to use

[See the Shopify tutorial on gatsbyjs.com for a full getting started guide](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/docs/building-an-ecommerce-site-with-shopify/)

Ensure you have an access token for the [Shopify Storefront API][shopify-storefront-api]. The token should have the following permissions:

- Read products, variants, and collections
- Read product tags
- Read content like articles, blogs, and comments

Then in your `gatsby-config.js` add the following config to enable this plugin:

```js
plugins: [
  /*
   * Gatsby's data processing layer begins with “source”
   * plugins. Here the site sources its data from Shopify.
   */
  {
    resolve: "gatsby-source-shopify",
    options: {
      // The domain name of your Shopify shop. This is required.
      // Example: 'gatsby-source-shopify-test-shop' if your Shopify address is
      // 'gatsby-source-shopify-test-shop.myshopify.com'.
      // If you are running your shop on a custom domain, you need to use that
      // as the shop name, without a trailing slash, for example:
      // shopName: "gatsby-shop.com",
      shopName: "gatsby-source-shopify-test-shop",

      // An API access token to your Shopify shop. This is required.
      // You can generate an access token in the "Manage private apps" section
      // of your shop's Apps settings. In the Storefront API section, be sure
      // to select "Allow this app to access your storefront data using the
      // Storefront API".
      // See: https://help.shopify.com/api/custom-storefronts/storefront-api/getting-started#authentication
      accessToken: "example-wou7evoh0eexuf6chooz2jai2qui9pae4tieph1sei4deiboj",

      // Set the API version you want to use. For a list of available API versions,
      // see: https://help.shopify.com/en/api/storefront-api/reference/queryroot
      // Defaults to 2019-07
      apiVersion: "2020-01",

      // Set verbose to true to display a verbose output on `npm run develop`
      // or `npm run build`. This prints which nodes are being fetched and how
      // much time was required to fetch and process the data.
      // Defaults to true.
      verbose: true,

      // Number of records to fetch on each request when building the cache
      // at startup. If your application encounters timeout errors during
      // startup, try decreasing this number.
      paginationSize: 250,

      // List of collections you want to fetch.
      // Possible values are: 'shop' and 'content'.
      // Defaults to ['shop', 'content'].
      includeCollections: ["shop", "content"],
      // Download Images Locally
      // set to false if you plan on using shopify's CDN
      downloadImages: true,

      // Allow overriding the default queries
      // This allows you to include/exclude extra fields when sourcing nodes
      // Available keys are: articles, blogs, collections, products, shopPolicies, and pages
      // Queries need to accept arguments for first and after
      // You will need to include all the fields you want available for a
      // specific key. View the `shopifyQueries Defaults` section below for a
      // full list of keys and fields.
      shopifyQueries: {
        products: `
          query GetProducts($first: Int!, $after: String) {
            products(first: $first, after: $after) {
              pageInfo {
                hasNextPage
              }
              edges {
                cursor
                node {
                  availableForSale
                }
              }
            }
          }
        `,
      },
    },
  },
]
```

NOTE: By default, all metafields are private. In order to pull metafields,
you must first [expose the metafield to the Storefront API](https://help.shopify.com/en/api/guides/metafields/storefront-api-metafields#expose-metafields-to-the-storefront-api).

## How to query

You can query nodes created from Shopify using GraphQL like the following:

**Note**: Learn to use the GraphQL tool and Ctrl+Spacebar at
`http://localhost:8000/___graphql` to discover the types and properties of your
GraphQL model.

```graphql
{
  allShopifyProduct {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        title
        handle
        productType
        vendor
        variants {
          id
          title
          price
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

All Shopify data is pulled using the [Shopify Storefront
API][shopify-storefront-api]. Data is made available in the same structure as
provided by the API, with a few exceptions noted below.

The following data types are available:

| Name               | Description                                                                                                           |
| ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Article**        | A blog entry.                                                                                                         |
| **Blog**           | Collection of articles.                                                                                               |
| **Comment**        | A comment on a blog entry.                                                                                            |
| **Collection**     | Represents a grouping of products that a shop owner can create to organize them or make their shops easier to browse. |
| **Product**        | Represents an individual item for sale in a Shopify store.                                                            |
| **ProductOption**  | Custom product property names.                                                                                        |
| **ProductVariant** | Represents a different version of a product, such as differing sizes or differing colors.                             |
| **ShopPolicy**     | Policy that a merchant has configured for their store, such as their refund or privacy policy.                        |
| **ShopDetails**    | Name, description and money format that a merchant has configured for their store.                                    |

For each data type listed above, `shopify${typeName}` and
`allShopify${typeName}` is made available. Nodes that are closely related, such
as `Article` and `Comment`, are provided as node fields as described below.

**Note**: The following examples are not a complete reference to the available
fields for each node. Utilize Gatsby's built-in GraphQL tool to discover the
types and properties available.

### Query articles

The associated blog data is provided on the `blog` field. Article comments are
provided on the `comments` field.

```graphql
{
  allShopifyArticle {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        author {
          email
          name
        }
        blog {
          title
        }
        comments {
          id
          author {
            email
            name
          }
          contentHtml
        }
        contentHtml
        publishedAt(formatString: "ddd, MMMM Do, YYYY")
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Query blogs

Blog data is provided on the `blog` field on `Article`, but it can be queried
directly like the following:

```graphql
{
  allShopifyBlog {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        title
        url
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Query article comments

Comments are provided on the `comments` field on `Article`, but they can be
queried directly like the following:

```graphql
{
  allShopifyComment {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        author {
          email
          name
        }
        contentHtml
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Query product collections

Products in the collection are provided on the `products` field.

```graphql
{
  allShopifyCollection {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        descriptionHtml
        handle
        image {
          src
          alt
        }
        products {
          id
          handle
          title
        }
        title
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Query products

Product variants and options are provided on the `variants` and `options`
fields.

```graphql
{
  allShopifyProduct {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        descriptionHtml
        handle
        images {
          originalSrc
        }
        variants {
          id
          availableForSale
          image {
            originalSrc
          }
          price
          selectedOptions {
            name
            value
          }
          sku
          title
        }
        title
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Query product options

Product options are provided on the `options` field on `Product`, but they can
be queried directly like the following:

```graphql
{
  allShopifyProductOption {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        name
        values
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Query product variants

Product variants are provided on the `variants` field on `Product`, but they
can be queried directly like the following:

```graphql
{
  allShopifyProductVariant {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        availableForSale
        image {
          originalSrc
        }
        price
        selectedOptions {
          name
          value
        }
        sku
        title
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Query shop policies

Shop policies include the following types:

- Privacy Policy (`privacyPolicy`)
- Refund Policy (`refundPolicy`)
- Terms of Service (`termsOfService`)

The type of policy is provided on the `type` field. Policies can be queried
like the following:

```graphql
{
  allShopifyShopPolicy {
    edges {
      node {
        body
        title
        type
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Query pages

Shopify merchants can create pages to hold static HTML content.

```graphql
{
  allShopifyPage {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        handle
        title
        body
        bodySummary
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Query shop details

Shopify merchants can give their shop a name, description and a money format.

```graphql
{
  shopifyShop {
    name
    description
    moneyFormat
  }
}
```

### Image processing

To use image processing you need `gatsby-transformer-sharp`,
`gatsby-plugin-sharp`, and their dependencies `gatsby-image` and
`gatsby-source-filesystem` in your `gatsby-config.js`.

You can apply image processing to any image field on a node. Image processing
of inline images added to description fields is currently not supported.

To access image processing in your queries, you need to use this pattern, where
`...ImageFragment` is one of the [`gatsby-transformer-sharp`
fragments][gatsby-image-fragments]:

```graphql
{
  allShopifyProduct {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        images {
          localFile {
            childImageSharp {
              ...ImageFragment
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Full example:

```graphql
{
  allShopifyProduct {
    edges {
      node {
        id
        images {
          localFile {
            childImageSharp {
              resolutions(width: 500, height: 300) {
                ...GatsbyImageSharpResolutions_withWebp
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

To learn more about image processing, check the documentation of
[gatsby-plugin-sharp][gatsby-plugin-sharp].

## Site's `gatsby-node.js` example

```js
const path = require("path")

exports.createPages = async ({ graphql, actions }) => {
  const { createPage } = actions

  const pages = await graphql(`
    {
      allShopifyProduct {
        edges {
          node {
            id
            handle
          }
        }
      }
    }
  `)

  pages.data.allShopifyProduct.edges.forEach(edge => {
    createPage({
      path: `/${edge.node.handle}`,
      component: path.resolve("./src/templates/product.js"),
      context: {
        id: edge.node.id,
      },
    })
  })
}
```

## shopifyQueries Defaults

The following can be used in gatsby-config.js to override the default queries.

```js
shopifyQueries: {
  articles: `
    query GetArticles($first: Int!, $after: String) {
      articles(first: $first, after: $after) {
        pageInfo {
          hasNextPage
        }
        edges {
          cursor
          node {
            author {
              bio
              email
              firstName
              lastName
              name
            }
            blog {
              id
            }
            comments(first: 250) {
              edges {
                node {
                  author {
                    email
                    name
                  }
                  content
                  contentHtml
                  id
                }
              }
            }
            content
            contentHtml
            excerpt
            excerptHtml
            id
            handle
            image {
              altText
              id
              src
            }
            publishedAt
            tags
            title
            url
            seo {
              title
              description
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  `,
  blogs: `
    query GetBlogs($first: Int!, $after: String) {
      blogs(first: $first, after: $after) {
        pageInfo {
          hasNextPage
        }
        edges {
          cursor
          node {
            id
            handle
            title
            url
          }
        }
      }
    }
  `,
  collections: `
    query GetCollections($first: Int!, $after: String) {
      collections(first: $first, after: $after) {
        pageInfo {
          hasNextPage
        }
        edges {
          cursor
          node {
            description
            descriptionHtml
            handle
            id
            image {
              altText
              id
              src
            }
            products(first: 250) {
              edges {
                node {
                  id
                }
              }
            }
            title
            updatedAt
          }
        }
      }
    }
  `,
  products: `
    query GetProducts($first: Int!, $after: String) {
      products(first: $first, after: $after) {
        pageInfo {
          hasNextPage
        }
        edges {
          cursor
          node {
            availableForSale
            createdAt
            description
            descriptionHtml
            handle
            id
            images(first: 250) {
              edges {
                node {
                  id
                  altText
                  originalSrc
                }
              }
            }
            metafields(first: 250) {
              edges {
                node {
                  description
                  id
                  key
                  namespace
                  value
                  valueType
                }
              }
            }
            onlineStoreUrl
            options {
              id
              name
              values
            }
            priceRange {
              minVariantPrice {
                amount
                currencyCode
              }
              maxVariantPrice {
                amount
                currencyCode
              }
            }
            productType
            publishedAt
            tags
            title
            updatedAt
            variants(first: 250) {
              edges {
                node {
                  availableForSale
                  compareAtPrice
                  compareAtPriceV2 {
                    amount
                    currencyCode
                  }
                  id
                  image {
                    altText
                    id
                    originalSrc
                  }
                  metafields(first: 250) {
                    edges {
                      node {
                        description
                        id
                        key
                        namespace
                        value
                        valueType
                      }
                    }
                  }
                  price
                  priceV2 {
                    amount
                    currencyCode
                  }
                  requiresShipping
                  selectedOptions {
                    name
                    value
                  }
                  sku
                  title
                  weight
                  weightUnit
                  presentmentPrices(first: 250) {
                    edges {
                      node {
                        price {
                          amount
                          currencyCode
                        }
                        compareAtPrice {
                          amount
                          currencyCode
                        }
                      }
                    }
                  }
                }
              }
            }
            vendor
          }
        }
      }
    }
  `,
  shopPolicies: `
    query GetPolicies {
      shop {
        privacyPolicy {
          body
          id
          title
          url
        }
        refundPolicy {
          body
          id
          title
          url
        }
        termsOfService {
          body
          id
          title
          url
        }
      }
    }
  `,
  pages: `
    query GetPages($first: Int!, $after: String) {
      pages(first: $first, after: $after) {
        pageInfo {
          hasNextPage
        }
        edges {
          cursor
          node {
            id
            handle
            title
            body
            bodySummary
            updatedAt
            url
          }
        }
      }
    }
  `,
},
```

## A note on customer information

Not all Shopify nodes have been implemented as they are not necessary for the
static portion of a Gatsby-generated website. This includes any node that
contains sensitive customer-specific information, such as `Order` and
`Payment`.

If you are in need of this data (e.g. building a private, internal website),
please open an issue. Until then, the nodes will not be implemented to lessen
the chances of someone accidentally making private information publicly
available.

[gatsby]: https://www.gatsbyjs.org/
[shopify]: https://www.shopify.com/
[shopify-storefront-api]: https://help.shopify.com/api/custom-storefronts/storefront-api
[graphql-inline-fragments]: https://graphql.org/learn/queries/#inline-fragments
[gatsby-plugin-sharp]: https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/packages/gatsby-plugin-sharp
[gatsby-image-fragments]: https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/master/packages/gatsby-image#gatsby-transformer-sharp
