docs/docs/how-to/querying-data/page-query.md, before:

---
title: Querying Data in Pages with GraphQL
---

Gatsby's `graphql` tag enables page components to retrieve data via a GraphQL query.

In this guide, you will learn [how to use the `graphql` tag](/docs/how-to/querying-data/page-query#add-the-graphql-query) in your pages, as well as go a little deeper into [how the `graphql` tag works](/docs/how-to/querying-data/page-query#how-does-the-graphql-tag-work).

If you’re curious, you can also read more about [why Gatsby uses GraphQL](/docs/why-gatsby-uses-graphql/).

## How to use the `graphql` tag in pages

Gatsby uses the concept of a page query, which is a query for a specific page in a site. It is unique in that it can take query variables unlike Gatsby's static queries.

### Add `description` to `siteMetadata`

The first step in displaying the description will be ensuring you have one to begin with.

```js:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  siteMetadata: {
    title: "My Homepage",
    description: "This is where I write my thoughts.",
  },
}
```

### Mark up basic index page

An index page (`src/pages/index.js`) can be marked up like so:

```jsx:title=src/pages/index.js
import React from "react"

const HomePage = () => {
  return <div>Hello!</div>
}

export default HomePage
```

### Add the `graphql` query

The first thing to do is import `graphql` from Gatsby. At the top of `index.js` add:

```diff:title=src/pages/index.js
import * as React from 'react'
+ import { graphql } from 'gatsby'

const HomePage = () => {
  return (
    <div>
      Hello!
    </div>
  )
}
```

Below the `HomePage` component declaration, export a new constant called `query`. The name of the constant isn't important, as Gatsby looks for an exported `graphql` string from the file rather than a specific variable. Note that you can only have one page query per file.

Then, set the const variable's value to be a `graphql` [tagged template](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Template_literals) with the query between two backticks:

```diff:title=src/pages/index.js
const HomePage = () => {
  return (
    <div>
      Hello!
    </div>
  )
}

+ export const query = graphql`
+   # query will go here
+ `
```

The first part of writing the GraphQL query is including the operation (in this case "`query`") along with a name.

From [browsing GraphiQL](/docs/tutorial/part-five/#introducing-graphiql/), you'll find that one of the fields that you can query on is `site`, which in turn has its own `siteMetadata` fields that correspond to the data provided in `gatsby-config.js`.

Putting this together, the completed query looks like:

```diff:title=src/pages/index.js
export const query = graphql`
- # query will go here
+  query HomePageQuery {
+    site {
+      siteMetadata {
+        description
+      }
+    }
+  }
`
```

### Provide data to the `<HomePage />` component

To start, update the `HomePage` component to destructure `data` from props.

The `data` prop contains the results of the GraphQL query, and matches the shape you would expect. With this in mind, the updated `HomePage` markup looks like:

```diff:title=src/pages/index.js
import * as React from 'react'
import { graphql } from 'gatsby'

- const HomePage = () => {
+ const HomePage = ({data}) => {
  return (
    <div>
-     Hello!
+     {data.site.siteMetadata.description}
    </div>
  )
}

export const query = graphql`
  query HomePageQuery {
    site {
      siteMetadata {
        description
      }
    }
  }
`

export default HomePage
```

After restarting `gatsby develop`, your home page will now display "This is where I write my thoughts." from the description set in `gatsby-config.js`!

## How does the `graphql` tag work?

`graphql` is a [tag function](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Template_literals#Tagged_templates). Behind the scenes Gatsby handles these tags in a particular way:

### The short answer

During the Gatsby build process, GraphQL queries are pulled out of the original source for parsing.

### The longer answer

The longer answer is a little more involved: Gatsby borrows a technique from
[Relay](https://facebook.github.io/relay/) that converts your source code into an [abstract syntax tree (AST)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abstract_syntax_tree) during the build step. [`file-parser.js`](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/5078f03027c868554111f48fbd5d685c403a9fdd/packages/gatsby/src/query/file-parser.js) and [`query-compiler.js`](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/5078f03027c868554111f48fbd5d685c403a9fdd/packages/gatsby/src/query/query-compiler.js) pick out your `graphql`-tagged templates and effectively remove them from the original source code.

_More information about [how queries work](/docs/query-behind-the-scenes/) is included in the Gatsby Internals section of the docs._

This means that the `graphql` tag isn’t executed the way that JavaScript code is typically handled. For example, you cannot use [expression interpolation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Template_literals#Expression_interpolation) with Gatsby's `graphql` tag. However, it's possible to pass variables into page queries with the `context` object [when creating pages](/docs/creating-and-modifying-pages).

## How to add query variables to a page query

Variables can be added to _page queries_ (but not static queries) through the context object that is an argument of the [`createPage` API](/docs/reference/config-files/actions/#createPage).

Consider the following query:

```js:title=src/templates/blog-post.js
export const query = graphql`
  query MdxBlogPost {
    mdx(title: { eq: "Using a Theme" }) {
      id
      title
    }
  }
`
```

The `MdxBlogPost` query will return an MDX node in a site where `gatsby-plugin-mdx` is installed and `.mdx` files have been [sourced](/docs/content-and-data/) with `gatsby-source-filesystem`, so long as it matches the argument passed in for a `title` equaling (`eq`) the string `"Using a Theme"`.

In addition to hardcoding an argument directly into the page query, you can pass in a variable. The query can be changed to include a variable like this:

```js:title=src/templates/blog-post.js
export const query = graphql`
  query MdxBlogPost($title: String) { // highlight-line
    mdx(title: {eq: $title}) { // highlight-line
      id
      title
    }
  }
`
```

When a page is created dynamically from this blog post template in `gatsby-node.js`, you can provide an object as part of the page's context. Keys in the context object that match up with arguments in the page query (in this case: `"title"`), will be used as variables. Variables are prefaced with `$`, so passing a `title` property will become `$title` in the query.

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
posts.forEach(({ node }, index) => {
  createPage({
    path: node.fields.slug,
    component: path.resolve(`./src/templates/blog-post.js`),
    // values in the context object are passed in as variables to page queries
    context: {
      title: node.title, // "Using a Theme"
    },
  })
})
```

For more information, check out the docs on [creating pages programmatically](/docs/programmatically-create-pages-from-data/).

Commit message:

Update page-query.md (#30877)
* Update page-query.md

Copy tweaks

* Update page-query.md

docs/docs/how-to/querying-data/page-query.md, after:

---
title: Querying Data in Pages with GraphQL
---

Gatsby's `graphql` tag enables page components to query data via a GraphQL query.

In this guide, you will learn [how to use the `graphql` tag](/docs/how-to/querying-data/page-query#add-the-graphql-query) in your pages, as well as go a little deeper into [how the `graphql` tag works](/docs/how-to/querying-data/page-query#how-does-the-graphql-tag-work).

If you’re curious, you can also read more about [why Gatsby uses GraphQL](/docs/why-gatsby-uses-graphql/).

## How to use the `graphql` tag in pages

Page components can have their own query. The query can use variables passed in when creating the page to select data for that page.

Let's do a quick tutorial on writing a simple page query.

### Add `description` to `siteMetadata`

Add a description to your site's metadata.

```js:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  siteMetadata: {
    title: "My Homepage",
    description: "This is where I write my thoughts.",
  },
}
```

### Make a basic index page

Create an home page (`src/pages/index.js`) like so:

```jsx:title=src/pages/index.js
import React from "react"

const HomePage = () => {
  return <div>Hello!</div>
}

export default HomePage
```

### Add the `graphql` query

The first thing to do is import `graphql` from Gatsby. At the top of `index.js` add:

```diff:title=src/pages/index.js
import * as React from 'react'
+ import { graphql } from 'gatsby'

const HomePage = () => {
  return (
    <div>
      Hello!
    </div>
  )
}
```

Below the `HomePage` component declaration, export a new constant called `query`. The name of the constant isn't important, as Gatsby looks for an exported `graphql` string from the file rather than a specific variable. Note that you can only have one page query per file.

Then, set the const variable's value to be a `graphql` [tagged template](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Template_literals) with the query between two backticks:

```diff:title=src/pages/index.js
const HomePage = () => {
  return (
    <div>
      Hello!
    </div>
  )
}

+ export const query = graphql`
+   # query will go here
+ `
```

The first part of writing the GraphQL query is including the operation (in this case "`query`") along with a name.

From [exploring in the GraphQL IDE, GraphiQL](/docs/tutorial/part-five/#introducing-graphiql/), you've learned that one of the types that you can query is `site`, which in turn has its own `siteMetadata` field with subfields that correspond to the data provided in `gatsby-config.js`.

Putting this together, the completed query looks like:

```diff:title=src/pages/index.js
export const query = graphql`
- # query will go here
+  query HomePageQuery {
+    site {
+      siteMetadata {
+        description
+      }
+    }
+  }
`
```

### Use the query result in the `<HomePage />` component

The `data` prop contains the results of the page GraphQL query, and matches the shape of the query. With this in mind, the updated `HomePage` markup looks like:

```diff:title=src/pages/index.js
import * as React from 'react'
import { graphql } from 'gatsby'

- const HomePage = () => {
+ const HomePage = ({data}) => {
  return (
    <div>
-     Hello!
+     {data.site.siteMetadata.description}
    </div>
  )
}

export const query = graphql`
  query HomePageQuery {
    site {
      siteMetadata {
        description
      }
    }
  }
`

export default HomePage
```

After restarting `gatsby develop`, your home page will now display "This is where I write my thoughts." from the description set in `gatsby-config.js`!

## How does the `graphql` tag work?

`graphql` is a [tag function](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Template_literals#Tagged_templates). Behind the scenes Gatsby handles these tags in a particular way:

### The short answer

During the Gatsby build process, GraphQL queries are pulled out of the original source for parsing.

### The longer answer

The longer answer is a little more involved: Gatsby borrows a technique from
[Relay](https://facebook.github.io/relay/) that converts your source code into an [abstract syntax tree (AST)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abstract_syntax_tree) during the build step. [`file-parser.js`](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/5078f03027c868554111f48fbd5d685c403a9fdd/packages/gatsby/src/query/file-parser.js) and [`query-compiler.js`](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/blob/5078f03027c868554111f48fbd5d685c403a9fdd/packages/gatsby/src/query/query-compiler.js) pick out your `graphql`-tagged templates and effectively remove them from the original source code.

_More information about [how queries work](/docs/query-behind-the-scenes/) is included in the Gatsby Internals section of the docs._

This means that the `graphql` tag isn’t executed the way that JavaScript code is typically handled. For example, you cannot use [expression interpolation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Template_literals#Expression_interpolation) with Gatsby's `graphql` tag. However, it's possible to pass variables into page queries with the `context` object [when creating pages](/docs/creating-and-modifying-pages).

## How to add query variables to a page query

Variables can be added to _page queries_ (but not static queries) through the context object that is an argument of the [`createPage` API](/docs/reference/config-files/actions/#createPage).

Consider the following query:

```js:title=src/templates/blog-post.js
export const query = graphql`
  query MdxBlogPost {
    mdx(title: { eq: "Using a Theme" }) {
      id
      title
    }
  }
`
```

The `MdxBlogPost` query will return an MDX node in a site where `gatsby-plugin-mdx` is installed and `.mdx` files have been [sourced](/docs/content-and-data/) with `gatsby-source-filesystem`, so long as it matches the argument passed in for a `title` equaling (`eq`) the string `"Using a Theme"`.

In addition to hardcoding an argument directly into the page query, you can pass in a variable. The query can be changed to include a variable like this:

```js:title=src/templates/blog-post.js
export const query = graphql`
  query MdxBlogPost($title: String) { // highlight-line
    mdx(title: {eq: $title}) { // highlight-line
      id
      title
    }
  }
`
```

When a page is created dynamically from this blog post template in `gatsby-node.js`, you can provide an object as part of the page's context. Keys in the context object that match up with arguments in the page query (in this case: `"title"`), will be used as variables. Variables are prefaced with `$`, so passing a `title` property will become `$title` in the query.

```js:title=gatsby-node.js
posts.forEach(({ node }, index) => {
  createPage({
    path: node.fields.slug,
    component: path.resolve(`./src/templates/blog-post.js`),
    // values in the context object are passed in as variables to page queries
    context: {
      title: node.title, // "Using a Theme"
    },
  })
})
```

For more information, check out the docs on [creating pages programmatically](/docs/programmatically-create-pages-from-data/).
