docs/docs/tutorial/part-7/index.mdx, before:

---
title: "Part 7: Add Dynamic Images from Data"
---

import { Announcement, LinkButton } from 'gatsby-interface'
import Collapsible from '@components/collapsible'
import { MdArrowForward } from 'react-icons/md'

## Introduction

In Part 3, you used `gatsby-plugin-image` to add static images to your home page. Now that you've worked a bit more with Gatsby's data layer, it's time to revisit `gatsby-plugin-image`. This time, you'll learn how to add dynamic images to your site.

In this part of the Tutorial, you'll use the dynamic `GatsbyImage` component to add hero images to each of your blog posts.

By the end of this part of the Tutorial, you will be able to:

- Use the `GatsbyImage` component to create images dynamically from data.

## Add hero images to blog post frontmatter

Many blog sites include a hero image at the top of each post. These images are usually large, high-quality photos that are meant to grab the reader's attention and make them want to stay on the page longer.

The steps below will help you find and download some photos for your hero images and add them to the frontmatter for each of your blog posts.

1. Start by organizing the `blog` directory with all your MDX posts. First, create a new subdirectory in your `blog` folder for each post. Then, rename each of your `.mdx` files to `index.mdx` (to prevent the routes from ending up with a duplicated path parameter, like `blog/my-post/my-post/`).
    * For example, a post at `blog/my-first-post.mdx` would move to `blog/my-first-post/index.mdx`. Similarly, a post at `blog/another-post.mdx` would move to `blog/another-post/index.mdx`.

<Announcement style={{marginBottom: "1.5rem"}}>

**Note:** After you move or rename your `.mdx` files, you'll need to stop and restart your local development server for your changes to be picked up.

</Announcement>

![Diagram of moving each MDX file into its own subdirectory in the blog folder](./reorganize-blog-directory.png)

2. Use a website like [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com) to find some pretty, freely usable images. For best results, choose photos with a landscape (horizontal) orientation, since those will fit on your screen more easily.
    ![A screenshot of the Unsplash home page](./unsplash.png)

2. When you've found a photo that you like, download it and add it to subdirectory for one of your blog posts. Continue downloading photos until you have a different hero image for each post.

3. Next, add some additional frontmatter fields to each of your blog posts:
    * `hero_image`: the relative path to the hero image file for that post
    * `hero_image_alt`: a short description of the image, to be used as alternative text for screen readers or in case the image doesn't load correctly
    * `hero_image_credit_text`: the text to display to give the photographer credit for the hero image
    * `hero_image_credit_link`: a link to the page where your hero image was downloaded from

```mdx:title=blog/my-first-post/index.mdx
---
title: "My First Post"
date: "2021-07-23"
// highlight-start
hero_image: "./christopher-ayme-ocZ-_Y7-Ptg-unsplash.jpg"
hero_image_alt: "A gray pitbull relaxing on the sidewalk with its tongue hanging out"
hero_image_credit_text: "Christopher Ayme"
hero_image_credit_link: "https://unsplash.com/photos/ocZ-_Y7-Ptg"
// highlight-end
---

...
```

```mdx:title=blog/another-post/index.mdx
---
title: "Another Post"
date: "2021-07-24"
// highlight-start
hero_image: "./anthony-duran-eLUBGqKGdE4-unsplash.jpg"
hero_image_alt: "A grey and white pitbull wading happily in a pool"
hero_image_credit_text: "Anthony Duran"
hero_image_credit_link: "https://unsplash.com/photos/eLUBGqKGdE4"
// highlight-end
---

...
```

```mdx:title=blog/yet-another-post/index.mdx
---
title: "Yet Another Post"
date: "2021-07-25"
// highlight-start
hero_image: "./jane-almon-7rriIaBH6JY-unsplash.jpg"
hero_image_alt: "A white pitbull wearing big googly-eye glasses"
hero_image_credit_text: "Jane Almon"
hero_image_credit_link: "https://unsplash.com/photos/7rriIaBH6JY"
// highlight-end
---

...
```

Now that your hero images are set up, it's time to connect them to the data layer so you can pull them into your blog post page template.

## Install and configure `gatsby-transformer-sharp`

In order to use the `GatsbyImage` component, you'll need to add the `gatsby-transformer-sharp` transformer plugin to your site.

When Gatsby adds nodes to the data layer at build time, the `gatsby-transformer-sharp` plugin looks for any `File` nodes that end with an image extension (like `.png` or `.jpg`) and creates an `ImageSharp` node for that file.

![A diagram showing how ImageSharp nodes get created from File nodes in the data layer](./data-layer-with-imagesharp-nodes.png)

1. In the terminal, run the following command to install `gatsby-transformer-sharp`:
    ```shell
    npm install gatsby-transformer-sharp
    ```

2. Add `gatsby-transformer-sharp` to the `plugins` array in your `gatsby-config.js` file.
    ```js:title=gatsby-config.js
    module.exports = {
      siteMetadata: {
        title: "My First Gatsby Site",
      },
      plugins: [
        // ...existing plugins
        "gatsby-transformer-sharp", // highlight-line
      ],
    }
    ```

Since you've added `gatsby-transformer-sharp` to your site, you'll need to restart your local development server to see the changes in GraphiQL. You'll take a closer look at GraphiQL in the next step.


## Render hero image in the blog post page template

With all the necessary tools in place, you're ready to add your hero image to your blog post page template.

### Task: Use GraphiQL to build the query

First, you'll use GraphiQL to add the hero image frontmatter fields to the GraphQL query for your blog post page template.

1. Open GraphiQL by going to `localhost:8000/___graphql` in a web browser. Start by copying your existing blog post page query into the GraphiQL Query Editor pane. Run it once to make sure everything is working correctly.

<Announcement style={{marginBottom: "1.5rem"}}>

**Note:** You'll need to set up an object in the Query Variables pane with an `id` that matches one of your posts. Refer to [Part 6 section on query variables](/docs/tutorial/part-6/#render-post-contents-in-the-blog-post-page-template) if you need a refresher on how to set that up.

</Announcement>

```graphql
query ($id: String) {
  mdx(id: {eq: $id}) {
    frontmatter {
      title
      date(formatString: "MMMM D, YYYY")
    }
    body
  }
}
```

```json
{
  "data": {
    "mdx": {
      "frontmatter": {
        "title": "My First Post",
        "date": "July 23, 2021",
      },
      "body": "..."
    }
  },
  "extensions": {}
}
```

2. In the Explorer pane, check the boxes for the `hero_image_alt`, `hero_image_credit_link`, and `hero_image_credit_text` fields. When you run your query, you should get back a response something like the JSON object below.

<Announcement style={{marginBottom: "1.5rem"}}>

**Note:** Remember to scroll down to the blue `frontmatter` field, which is lower than the purple `frontmatter:` argument.

</Announcement>

```graphql
query ($id: String) {
  mdx(id: {eq: $id}) {
    frontmatter {
      title
      date(formatString: "MMMM D, YYYY")
      // highlight-start
      hero_image_alt
      hero_image_credit_link
      hero_image_credit_text
      // highlight-end
    }
    body
  }
}
```

```json
{
  "data": {
    "mdx": {
      "frontmatter": {
        "title": "My First Post",
        "date": "July 23, 2021",
        "hero_image_alt": "A gray pitbull relaxing on the sidewalk with its tongue hanging out",
        "hero_image_credit_link": "https://unsplash.com/photos/ocZ-_Y7-Ptg",
        "hero_image_credit_text": "Christopher Ayme"
      },
      "body": "..."
    }
  },
  "extensions": {}
}
```

3. Adding the `hero_image` field itself is a bit more involved. Within the `hero_image` field, toggle the `childImageSharp` field, and then check the box for the `gatsbyImageData` field. Now your query should look like this:

```graphql
query ($id: String) {
  mdx(id: {eq: $id}) {
    frontmatter {
      title
      date(formatString: "MMMM D, YYYY")
      hero_image_alt
      hero_image_credit_link
      hero_image_credit_text
      // highlight-start
      hero_image {
        childImageSharp {
          gatsbyImageData
        }
      }
      // highlight-end
    }
    body
  }
}
```

4. Run your query to see what data you get back in the response. It should mostly look like the response you got back before, but this time with an extra `hero_image` object:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "mdx": {
      "frontmatter": {
        // ...
        // highlight-start
        "hero_image": {
          "childImageSharp": [
            {
              "gatsbyImageData": {
                "layout": "constrained",
                "backgroundColor": "#282828",
                "images": {
                  "fallback": {
                    "src": "/static/402ec135e08c3b799c16c08a82ae2dd8/68193/christopher-ayme-ocZ-_Y7-Ptg-unsplash.jpg",
                    "srcSet": "/static/402ec135e08c3b799c16c08a82ae2dd8/86d57/christopher-ayme-ocZ-_Y7-Ptg-unsplash.jpg 919w,\n/static/402ec135e08c3b799c16c08a82ae2dd8/075d8/christopher-ayme-ocZ-_Y7-Ptg-unsplash.jpg 1839w,\n/static/402ec135e08c3b799c16c08a82ae2dd8/68193/christopher-ayme-ocZ-_Y7-Ptg-unsplash.jpg 3677w",
                    "sizes": "(min-width: 3677px) 3677px, 100vw"
                  },
                  "sources": [
                    {
                      "srcSet": "/static/402ec135e08c3b799c16c08a82ae2dd8/6b4aa/christopher-ayme-ocZ-_Y7-Ptg-unsplash.webp 919w,\n/static/402ec135e08c3b799c16c08a82ae2dd8/0fe0b/christopher-ayme-ocZ-_Y7-Ptg-unsplash.webp 1839w,\n/static/402ec135e08c3b799c16c08a82ae2dd8/5d6d7/christopher-ayme-ocZ-_Y7-Ptg-unsplash.webp 3677w",
                      "type": "image/webp",
                      "sizes": "(min-width: 3677px) 3677px, 100vw"
                    }
                  ]
                },
                "width": 3677,
                "height": 2456
              }
            }
          ]
        }
        // highlight-end
      },
      "body": "..."
    }
  },
  "extensions": {}
}
```

If you take a closer look at the `gatsbyImageData` object on the `hero_image.childImageSharp` field, you'll see that it contains a bunch of information about the hero image for that post: dimensions, file paths for the images at different sizes, fallback images to use as a placeholder while the image loads. All this data gets calculated by `gatsby-plugin-sharp` at build time. The `gatsbyImageData` object in your response has the same structure that the `GatsbyImage` component needs to render an image.

### Task: Add hero image using `GatsbyImage` component

Once you have your GraphQL query set up, you can to add it to your blog post page template.

1. Replace your existing page query with the query you built in GraphiQL that includes the hero image frontmatter fields.
    ```js:title=src/pages/blog/{mdx.slug}.js
    // imports

    const BlogPost = ({ data }) => {
      return (
        // ...
      )
    }

    // highlight-start
    export const query = graphql`
      query($slug: String) {
        mdx(slug: {eq: $slug}) {
          body
          frontmatter {
            date(formatString: "MMMM DD, YYYY")
            title
            hero_image_alt
            hero_image_credit_link
            hero_image_credit_text
            hero_image {
              childImageSharp {
                gatsbyImageData
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    `
    // highlight-end

    export default BlogPost
    ```

2. Import the `GatsbyImage` component and the `getImage` helper function from the `gatsby-plugin-image` package.

```js:title=src/pages/blog/{mdx.slug}.js
import * as React from 'react'
import { graphql } from 'gatsby'
import { MDXRenderer } from 'gatsby-plugin-mdx'
import { GatsbyImage, getImage } from 'gatsby-plugin-image' // highlight-line
import Layout from '../../components/layout'

// ...
```

2. Use the `getImage` helper function to get back the `gatsbyImageData` object from the `hero_image` field.

```js:title=src/pages/blog/{mdx.slug}.js
// imports

const BlogPost = ({ data }) => {
  const image = getImage(data.mdx.frontmatter.hero_image) // highlight-line

  return (
    // ...
  )
}

// ...
```

<Announcement style={{marginBottom: "1.5rem"}}>

**Note:** `getImage` is a helper function that takes in a `File` node or an `ImageSharp` node and returns the `gatsbyImageData` object for that node. You can use it to keep your code a little cleaner and easier to read.

Without the `getImage` helper function, you'd have to type out `data.mdx.frontmatter.hero_image.childImageSharp.gatsbyImageData` (which is longer, but gives you back the same data).

</Announcement>

3. Use the `GatsbyImage` component from `gatsby-plugin-image` to render the hero image data. You should pass `GatsbyImage` two props:
    * `image`: the `gatsbyImageData` object for your `hero_image` field
    * `alt`: the alternative text for your image, from the `hero_image_alt` field
    ```js:title=src/pages/blog/{mdx.slug}.js
    return (
      <Layout pageTitle={data.mdx.frontmatter.title}>
        <p>Posted: {data.mdx.frontmatter.date}</p>
        {/* highlight-start */}
        <GatsbyImage
          image={image}
          alt={data.mdx.frontmatter.hero_image_alt}
        />
        {/* highlight-end */}
        <MDXRenderer>
          {data.mdx.body}
        </MDXRenderer>
      </Layout>
    )
    ```

4. Now, when you visit each of your blog post pages, you should see the corresponding hero image rendered before the body of your post!
    ![A screenshot of the My First Post blog page, with a hero image of a gray pitbull relaxing on the sidewalk.](./blog-post-with-hero-image.png)

    ![A screenshot of the Another Post blog page, with a hero image of a gray and white pitbull in a swimming pool.](./another-post.png)

    ![A screenshot of the Yet Another Post blog page, with a hero image of a dog wearing googly-eye glasses.](./yet-another-post.png)

### Task: Add image credit after hero image

It's important to give credit to people whose work you use in your own site. The last piece of including hero images to your site is to add a paragraph to give credit to the photographer.

<Announcement style={{marginBottom: "1.5rem"}}>

**Pro Tip:** Since the credit link goes to an external page (in other words, one that's not part of your site), you can use the `<a>` HTML tag instead of the Gatsby `Link` component.

Remember, Gatsby's `Link` component only gives performance benefits for internal links to other pages within your site.

</Announcement>



```js:title=src/pages/blog/{mdx.slug}.js
// imports

const BlogPost = ({ data }) => {
  const image = getImage(data.mdx.frontmatter.hero_image)

  return (
    <Layout pageTitle={data.mdx.frontmatter.title}>
      <p>{data.mdx.frontmatter.date}</p>
      <GatsbyImage
        image={image}
        alt={data.mdx.frontmatter.hero_image_alt}
      />
      {/* highlight-start */}
      <p>
        Photo Credit:{" "}
        <Link to={data.mdx.frontmatter.hero_image_credit_link}>
          {data.mdx.frontmatter.hero_image_credit_text}
        </Link>
      </p>
      {/* highlight-end */}
      <MDXRenderer>
        {data.mdx.body}
      </MDXRenderer>
    </Layout>
  )
  }

export const query = graphql`
  ...
`

export default BlogPost
```

<Announcement style={{marginBottom: "1.5rem"}}>

**Syntax Hint:** You might have noticed that there's a `{" "}` after the "Photo Credit:" text `<p>` tag. That's to make sure that a space gets rendered between the colon (`:`) and the link text.

Try removing the `{" "}` and see what happens. The paragraph text should end up being "Photo Credit:Author".

</Announcement>

![A screenshot of the My First Post blog page, which now includes a photo credit underneath the hero image. It says, "Photo Credit: Christopher Ayme".](./blog-post-with-hero-image-credit.png)

## Summary

Take a moment to think back on what you've learned so far. Challenge yourself to answer the following questions from memory:

* When should you use the `GatsbyImage` component instead of the `StaticImage` component?

<Announcement style={{marginBottom: "1.5rem"}}>

**Ship It!** 🚀

Before you move on, deploy your changes to your live site on Gatsby Cloud so that you can share your progress!

First, run the following commands in a terminal to push your changes to your GitHub repository. (Make sure you're in the top-level directory for your Gatsby site!)

```shell
git add .
git commit -m "Finished Gatsby Tutorial Part 7"
git push
```

Once your changes have been pushed to GitHub, Gatsby Cloud should notice the update and rebuild and deploy the latest version of your site. (It may take a few minutes for your changes to be reflected on the live site. Watch your build's progress from your [Gatsby Cloud dashboard](/dashboard/).)

</Announcement>

### Key takeaways

* Use the `StaticImage` component if your component always renders the same image (from a relative path or a remote URL).
* Use the `GatsbyImage` component if the image source is changes for different instances of your component (like if it gets passed in as a prop).

<Announcement style={{marginBottom: "1.5rem"}}>

**Share Your Feedback!**

Our goal is for this Tutorial to be helpful and easy to follow. We'd love to hear your feedback about what you liked or didn't like about this part of the Tutorial.

Use the "Was this doc helpful to you?" form at the bottom of this page to let us know what worked well and what we can improve.

</Announcement>

### You did it!

Congratulations, you've reached the end of the official Gatsby Tutorial! 🥳

Want to know more? The next page includes some additional resources that you can use to continue learning about Gatsby.

<LinkButton
  to="/docs/tutorial/whats-next/"
  rightIcon={<MdArrowForward />}
  variant="SECONDARY"
>
  Continue to What's Next
</LinkButton>

Commit message:

docs(tutorial): add background info section to start of part 7

docs/docs/tutorial/part-7/index.mdx, after:

---
title: "Part 7: Add Dynamic Images from Data"
---

import { Announcement, LinkButton } from 'gatsby-interface'
import Collapsible from '@components/collapsible'
import { MdArrowForward } from 'react-icons/md'

## Introduction

In [Part 3](/docs/tutorial/part-3/), you used `gatsby-plugin-image` to add static images to your home page. Now that you've worked a bit more with Gatsby's data layer, it's time to revisit `gatsby-plugin-image`. This time, you'll learn how to add dynamic images to your site.

In this part of the Tutorial, you'll use the dynamic `GatsbyImage` component to add hero images to each of your blog posts.

By the end of this part of the Tutorial, you will be able to:

- Use the `GatsbyImage` component to create images dynamically from data.

## What's the difference between `GatsbyImage` and `StaticImage`?

Back in [Part 3](/docs/tutorial/part-3/) of the Tutorial, you learned about how to use the `StaticImage` component from `gatsby-plugin-image`.

How do you know whether to use the `StaticImage` component or the `GatsbyImage` component? The decision ultimately comes down to whether or not your image source is going to be the same every time the component renders.

* The `StaticImage` component is for *static* image sources, like a hard-coded file path or remote URL. In other words, the source for your image is always going to be the same every time the component renders.
* The `GatsbyImage` component is for *dynamic* image sources, like if the image source gets passed in as a prop.

Here's a quick analogy to help illustrate the difference:

* Using the `StaticImage` component is like asking for directions using a physical address, like "400 Main Street". You'll always end up in the same place, no matter how many people you ask.
* Using the `GatsbyImage` component is like asking for directions more generically. If you ask someone to point you to the best coffee shop in town, where you end up will depend on whom you ask and what their personal preferences are.

![A side-by-side of two identical cartoon maps of a little town. The first, labeled "StaticImage", labels one of the houses "400 Main Street". The second, labeled "GatsbyImage", labels three of the houses with "coffee shop".](./staticimage-vs-gatsbyimage-towns.png)

In this part of the Tutorial, you'll add a hero image to your blog post page template. You'll also add some frontmatter data to your blog post `.mdx` files to specify which image to use for each post. Since the image source you'll load in the page template will change for each blog post, you'll use the `GatsbyImage` component.

## Add hero images to blog post frontmatter

Many blog sites include a hero image at the top of each post. These images are usually large, high-quality photos that are meant to grab the reader's attention and make them want to stay on the page longer.

The steps below will help you find and download some photos for your hero images and add them to the frontmatter for each of your blog posts.

1. Start by organizing the `blog` directory with all your MDX posts. First, create a new subdirectory in your `blog` folder for each post. Then, rename each of your `.mdx` files to `index.mdx` (to prevent the routes from ending up with a duplicated path parameter, like `blog/my-post/my-post/`).
    * For example, a post at `blog/my-first-post.mdx` would move to `blog/my-first-post/index.mdx`. Similarly, a post at `blog/another-post.mdx` would move to `blog/another-post/index.mdx`.

<Announcement style={{marginBottom: "1.5rem"}}>

**Note:** After you move or rename your `.mdx` files, you'll need to stop and restart your local development server for your changes to be picked up.

</Announcement>

![Diagram of moving each MDX file into its own subdirectory in the blog folder](./reorganize-blog-directory.png)

2. Use a website like [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com) to find some pretty, freely usable images. For best results, choose photos with a landscape (horizontal) orientation, since those will fit on your screen more easily.
    ![A screenshot of the Unsplash home page](./unsplash.png)

2. When you've found a photo that you like, download it and add it to subdirectory for one of your blog posts. Continue downloading photos until you have a different hero image for each post.

3. Next, add some additional frontmatter fields to each of your blog posts:
    * `hero_image`: the relative path to the hero image file for that post
    * `hero_image_alt`: a short description of the image, to be used as alternative text for screen readers or in case the image doesn't load correctly
    * `hero_image_credit_text`: the text to display to give the photographer credit for the hero image
    * `hero_image_credit_link`: a link to the page where your hero image was downloaded from

```mdx:title=blog/my-first-post/index.mdx
---
title: "My First Post"
date: "2021-07-23"
// highlight-start
hero_image: "./christopher-ayme-ocZ-_Y7-Ptg-unsplash.jpg"
hero_image_alt: "A gray pitbull relaxing on the sidewalk with its tongue hanging out"
hero_image_credit_text: "Christopher Ayme"
hero_image_credit_link: "https://unsplash.com/photos/ocZ-_Y7-Ptg"
// highlight-end
---

...
```

```mdx:title=blog/another-post/index.mdx
---
title: "Another Post"
date: "2021-07-24"
// highlight-start
hero_image: "./anthony-duran-eLUBGqKGdE4-unsplash.jpg"
hero_image_alt: "A grey and white pitbull wading happily in a pool"
hero_image_credit_text: "Anthony Duran"
hero_image_credit_link: "https://unsplash.com/photos/eLUBGqKGdE4"
// highlight-end
---

...
```

```mdx:title=blog/yet-another-post/index.mdx
---
title: "Yet Another Post"
date: "2021-07-25"
// highlight-start
hero_image: "./jane-almon-7rriIaBH6JY-unsplash.jpg"
hero_image_alt: "A white pitbull wearing big googly-eye glasses"
hero_image_credit_text: "Jane Almon"
hero_image_credit_link: "https://unsplash.com/photos/7rriIaBH6JY"
// highlight-end
---

...
```

Now that your hero images are set up, it's time to connect them to the data layer so you can pull them into your blog post page template.

## Install and configure `gatsby-transformer-sharp`

In order to use the `GatsbyImage` component, you'll need to add the `gatsby-transformer-sharp` transformer plugin to your site.

When Gatsby adds nodes to the data layer at build time, the `gatsby-transformer-sharp` plugin looks for any `File` nodes that end with an image extension (like `.png` or `.jpg`) and creates an `ImageSharp` node for that file.

![A diagram showing how ImageSharp nodes get created from File nodes in the data layer](./data-layer-with-imagesharp-nodes.png)

1. In the terminal, run the following command to install `gatsby-transformer-sharp`:
    ```shell
    npm install gatsby-transformer-sharp
    ```

2. Add `gatsby-transformer-sharp` to the `plugins` array in your `gatsby-config.js` file.
    ```js:title=gatsby-config.js
    module.exports = {
      siteMetadata: {
        title: "My First Gatsby Site",
      },
      plugins: [
        // ...existing plugins
        "gatsby-transformer-sharp", // highlight-line
      ],
    }
    ```

Since you've added `gatsby-transformer-sharp` to your site, you'll need to restart your local development server to see the changes in GraphiQL. You'll take a closer look at GraphiQL in the next step.


## Render hero image in the blog post page template

With all the necessary tools in place, you're ready to add your hero image to your blog post page template.

### Task: Use GraphiQL to build the query

First, you'll use GraphiQL to add the hero image frontmatter fields to the GraphQL query for your blog post page template.

1. Open GraphiQL by going to `localhost:8000/___graphql` in a web browser. Start by copying your existing blog post page query into the GraphiQL Query Editor pane. Run it once to make sure everything is working correctly.

<Announcement style={{marginBottom: "1.5rem"}}>

**Note:** You'll need to set up an object in the Query Variables pane with an `id` that matches one of your posts. Refer to [Part 6 section on query variables](/docs/tutorial/part-6/#render-post-contents-in-the-blog-post-page-template) if you need a refresher on how to set that up.

</Announcement>

```graphql
query ($id: String) {
  mdx(id: {eq: $id}) {
    frontmatter {
      title
      date(formatString: "MMMM D, YYYY")
    }
    body
  }
}
```

```json
{
  "data": {
    "mdx": {
      "frontmatter": {
        "title": "My First Post",
        "date": "July 23, 2021",
      },
      "body": "..."
    }
  },
  "extensions": {}
}
```

2. In the Explorer pane, check the boxes for the `hero_image_alt`, `hero_image_credit_link`, and `hero_image_credit_text` fields. When you run your query, you should get back a response something like the JSON object below.

<Announcement style={{marginBottom: "1.5rem"}}>

**Note:** Remember to scroll down to the blue `frontmatter` field, which is lower than the purple `frontmatter:` argument.

</Announcement>

```graphql
query ($id: String) {
  mdx(id: {eq: $id}) {
    frontmatter {
      title
      date(formatString: "MMMM D, YYYY")
      // highlight-start
      hero_image_alt
      hero_image_credit_link
      hero_image_credit_text
      // highlight-end
    }
    body
  }
}
```

```json
{
  "data": {
    "mdx": {
      "frontmatter": {
        "title": "My First Post",
        "date": "July 23, 2021",
        "hero_image_alt": "A gray pitbull relaxing on the sidewalk with its tongue hanging out",
        "hero_image_credit_link": "https://unsplash.com/photos/ocZ-_Y7-Ptg",
        "hero_image_credit_text": "Christopher Ayme"
      },
      "body": "..."
    }
  },
  "extensions": {}
}
```

3. Adding the `hero_image` field itself is a bit more involved. Within the `hero_image` field, toggle the `childImageSharp` field, and then check the box for the `gatsbyImageData` field. Now your query should look like this:

```graphql
query ($id: String) {
  mdx(id: {eq: $id}) {
    frontmatter {
      title
      date(formatString: "MMMM D, YYYY")
      hero_image_alt
      hero_image_credit_link
      hero_image_credit_text
      // highlight-start
      hero_image {
        childImageSharp {
          gatsbyImageData
        }
      }
      // highlight-end
    }
    body
  }
}
```

4. Run your query to see what data you get back in the response. It should mostly look like the response you got back before, but this time with an extra `hero_image` object:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "mdx": {
      "frontmatter": {
        // ...
        // highlight-start
        "hero_image": {
          "childImageSharp": [
            {
              "gatsbyImageData": {
                "layout": "constrained",
                "backgroundColor": "#282828",
                "images": {
                  "fallback": {
                    "src": "/static/402ec135e08c3b799c16c08a82ae2dd8/68193/christopher-ayme-ocZ-_Y7-Ptg-unsplash.jpg",
                    "srcSet": "/static/402ec135e08c3b799c16c08a82ae2dd8/86d57/christopher-ayme-ocZ-_Y7-Ptg-unsplash.jpg 919w,\n/static/402ec135e08c3b799c16c08a82ae2dd8/075d8/christopher-ayme-ocZ-_Y7-Ptg-unsplash.jpg 1839w,\n/static/402ec135e08c3b799c16c08a82ae2dd8/68193/christopher-ayme-ocZ-_Y7-Ptg-unsplash.jpg 3677w",
                    "sizes": "(min-width: 3677px) 3677px, 100vw"
                  },
                  "sources": [
                    {
                      "srcSet": "/static/402ec135e08c3b799c16c08a82ae2dd8/6b4aa/christopher-ayme-ocZ-_Y7-Ptg-unsplash.webp 919w,\n/static/402ec135e08c3b799c16c08a82ae2dd8/0fe0b/christopher-ayme-ocZ-_Y7-Ptg-unsplash.webp 1839w,\n/static/402ec135e08c3b799c16c08a82ae2dd8/5d6d7/christopher-ayme-ocZ-_Y7-Ptg-unsplash.webp 3677w",
                      "type": "image/webp",
                      "sizes": "(min-width: 3677px) 3677px, 100vw"
                    }
                  ]
                },
                "width": 3677,
                "height": 2456
              }
            }
          ]
        }
        // highlight-end
      },
      "body": "..."
    }
  },
  "extensions": {}
}
```

If you take a closer look at the `gatsbyImageData` object on the `hero_image.childImageSharp` field, you'll see that it contains a bunch of information about the hero image for that post: dimensions, file paths for the images at different sizes, fallback images to use as a placeholder while the image loads. All this data gets calculated by `gatsby-plugin-sharp` at build time. The `gatsbyImageData` object in your response has the same structure that the `GatsbyImage` component needs to render an image.

### Task: Add hero image using `GatsbyImage` component

Once you have your GraphQL query set up, you can to add it to your blog post page template.

1. Replace your existing page query with the query you built in GraphiQL that includes the hero image frontmatter fields.
    ```js:title=src/pages/blog/{mdx.slug}.js
    // imports

    const BlogPost = ({ data }) => {
      return (
        // ...
      )
    }

    // highlight-start
    export const query = graphql`
      query($slug: String) {
        mdx(slug: {eq: $slug}) {
          body
          frontmatter {
            date(formatString: "MMMM DD, YYYY")
            title
            hero_image_alt
            hero_image_credit_link
            hero_image_credit_text
            hero_image {
              childImageSharp {
                gatsbyImageData
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    `
    // highlight-end

    export default BlogPost
    ```

2. Import the `GatsbyImage` component and the `getImage` helper function from the `gatsby-plugin-image` package.

```js:title=src/pages/blog/{mdx.slug}.js
import * as React from 'react'
import { graphql } from 'gatsby'
import { MDXRenderer } from 'gatsby-plugin-mdx'
import { GatsbyImage, getImage } from 'gatsby-plugin-image' // highlight-line
import Layout from '../../components/layout'

// ...
```

2. Use the `getImage` helper function to get back the `gatsbyImageData` object from the `hero_image` field.

```js:title=src/pages/blog/{mdx.slug}.js
// imports

const BlogPost = ({ data }) => {
  const image = getImage(data.mdx.frontmatter.hero_image) // highlight-line

  return (
    // ...
  )
}

// ...
```

<Announcement style={{marginBottom: "1.5rem"}}>

**Note:** `getImage` is a helper function that takes in a `File` node or an `ImageSharp` node and returns the `gatsbyImageData` object for that node. You can use it to keep your code a little cleaner and easier to read.

Without the `getImage` helper function, you'd have to type out `data.mdx.frontmatter.hero_image.childImageSharp.gatsbyImageData` (which is longer, but gives you back the same data).

</Announcement>

3. Use the `GatsbyImage` component from `gatsby-plugin-image` to render the hero image data. You should pass `GatsbyImage` two props:
    * `image`: the `gatsbyImageData` object for your `hero_image` field
    * `alt`: the alternative text for your image, from the `hero_image_alt` field
    ```js:title=src/pages/blog/{mdx.slug}.js
    return (
      <Layout pageTitle={data.mdx.frontmatter.title}>
        <p>Posted: {data.mdx.frontmatter.date}</p>
        {/* highlight-start */}
        <GatsbyImage
          image={image}
          alt={data.mdx.frontmatter.hero_image_alt}
        />
        {/* highlight-end */}
        <MDXRenderer>
          {data.mdx.body}
        </MDXRenderer>
      </Layout>
    )
    ```

4. Now, when you visit each of your blog post pages, you should see the corresponding hero image rendered before the body of your post!
    ![A screenshot of the My First Post blog page, with a hero image of a gray pitbull relaxing on the sidewalk.](./blog-post-with-hero-image.png)

    ![A screenshot of the Another Post blog page, with a hero image of a gray and white pitbull in a swimming pool.](./another-post.png)

    ![A screenshot of the Yet Another Post blog page, with a hero image of a dog wearing googly-eye glasses.](./yet-another-post.png)

### Task: Add image credit after hero image

It's important to give credit to people whose work you use in your own site. The last piece of including hero images to your site is to add a paragraph to give credit to the photographer.

<Announcement style={{marginBottom: "1.5rem"}}>

**Pro Tip:** Since the credit link goes to an external page (in other words, one that's not part of your site), you can use the `<a>` HTML tag instead of the Gatsby `Link` component.

Remember, Gatsby's `Link` component only gives performance benefits for internal links to other pages within your site.

</Announcement>



```js:title=src/pages/blog/{mdx.slug}.js
// imports

const BlogPost = ({ data }) => {
  const image = getImage(data.mdx.frontmatter.hero_image)

  return (
    <Layout pageTitle={data.mdx.frontmatter.title}>
      <p>{data.mdx.frontmatter.date}</p>
      <GatsbyImage
        image={image}
        alt={data.mdx.frontmatter.hero_image_alt}
      />
      {/* highlight-start */}
      <p>
        Photo Credit:{" "}
        <Link to={data.mdx.frontmatter.hero_image_credit_link}>
          {data.mdx.frontmatter.hero_image_credit_text}
        </Link>
      </p>
      {/* highlight-end */}
      <MDXRenderer>
        {data.mdx.body}
      </MDXRenderer>
    </Layout>
  )
  }

export const query = graphql`
  ...
`

export default BlogPost
```

<Announcement style={{marginBottom: "1.5rem"}}>

**Syntax Hint:** You might have noticed that there's a `{" "}` after the "Photo Credit:" text `<p>` tag. That's to make sure that a space gets rendered between the colon (`:`) and the link text.

Try removing the `{" "}` and see what happens. The paragraph text should end up being "Photo Credit:Author".

</Announcement>

![A screenshot of the My First Post blog page, which now includes a photo credit underneath the hero image. It says, "Photo Credit: Christopher Ayme".](./blog-post-with-hero-image-credit.png)

## Summary

Take a moment to think back on what you've learned so far. Challenge yourself to answer the following questions from memory:

* When should you use the `GatsbyImage` component instead of the `StaticImage` component?

<Announcement style={{marginBottom: "1.5rem"}}>

**Ship It!** 🚀

Before you move on, deploy your changes to your live site on Gatsby Cloud so that you can share your progress!

First, run the following commands in a terminal to push your changes to your GitHub repository. (Make sure you're in the top-level directory for your Gatsby site!)

```shell
git add .
git commit -m "Finished Gatsby Tutorial Part 7"
git push
```

Once your changes have been pushed to GitHub, Gatsby Cloud should notice the update and rebuild and deploy the latest version of your site. (It may take a few minutes for your changes to be reflected on the live site. Watch your build's progress from your [Gatsby Cloud dashboard](/dashboard/).)

</Announcement>

### Key takeaways

* Use the `StaticImage` component if your component always renders the same image (from a relative path or a remote URL).
* Use the `GatsbyImage` component if the image source is changes for different instances of your component (like if it gets passed in as a prop).

<Announcement style={{marginBottom: "1.5rem"}}>

**Share Your Feedback!**

Our goal is for this Tutorial to be helpful and easy to follow. We'd love to hear your feedback about what you liked or didn't like about this part of the Tutorial.

Use the "Was this doc helpful to you?" form at the bottom of this page to let us know what worked well and what we can improve.

</Announcement>

### You did it!

Congratulations, you've reached the end of the official Gatsby Tutorial! 🥳

Want to know more? The next page includes some additional resources that you can use to continue learning about Gatsby.

<LinkButton
  to="/docs/tutorial/whats-next/"
  rightIcon={<MdArrowForward />}
  variant="SECONDARY"
>
  Continue to What's Next
</LinkButton>
