# Changelog Generator

Generates changelogs based on Gatsby Release Process conventions:

1. Each `minor` release has its own release branch (e.g. `release/2.32`)
2. Each `minor` release branch starts from master with pre-minor `next` tag
   (e.g. minor `2.32.0` starts from `2.32.0-next.0`)
3. So all commits of a minor release are in a range like this: [2.32.0-next.0...2.32.0](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/compare/gatsby@2.32.0-next.0...gatsby@2.32.0).
4. Commits of a patch release are in the usual range: [2.32.0...2.32.1](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/compare/gatsby@2.32.0...gatsby@2.32.1).

## Conventional Commits

This generator relies on [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/)
and under the hood uses tooling from [conventional-changelog](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/conventional-changelog)
(adapted for Gatsby Release Process conventions).

## Usage

```shell
node scripts/gatsby-changelog-generator/cli.js
```

```
cli.js <command>

Commands:
  cli.js regenerate <pkg>  Regenerates changelog of a given package
  cli.js regenerate-all    Regenerate changelogs of all packages in the monorepo
                           (slow)
  cli.js update <pkg>      Add new versions to the changelog of a given package
  cli.js update-all        Update changelogs of all packages in the monorepo

Options:
  --help     Show help                                                 [boolean]
  --version  Show version number                                       [boolean]
```

#### regenerate

Completely re-writes all entries of the package changelog published using the new release process conventions.
Old versions are kept intact (relies on `<a name="before-release-process"></a>` separator inside `CHANGELOG.md`
for demarcation).

This action is idempotent.

#### update

Add recent package versions to the top of changelog.
Under the hood it reads git tags and compares with the latest recorded version in the changelog.

> `regenerate-all` and `update-all` are the same as `regenerate` and `update` respectively
> but applied to all packages in the monorepo

## Automation

### Updates changelogs on `lerna publish`

> Default changelogs generated by `lerna` are disabled globally in `lerna.json`.

This tool uses `version` [lifecycle hook](https://github.com/lerna/lerna/tree/main/commands/version#lifecycle-scripts) of lerna
to automatically update changelogs on publish.

It only updates changelogs when stable releases are published. Pre-releases and canaries are ignored
(caveat: `rc`, `alpha`, `beta` versions won't get their changelog entries).

See `version` field in `package.json` on actual setup (uses `lerna-version-lifecycle.js` script)

### Updates changelogs in `master` automatically

Actual publishing happens in `release/*` branches, so changelogs in `master` get out of sync.

To sync them we need to update changelogs in `master` separately. This happens automatically via `update_changelogs`
job in CircleCI. This job calls `update-and-open-pr.js` to update changelogs in the current branch
and open a PR with suggested updated.
