packages/gatsby-remark-prismjs/README.md, before:

# gatsby-remark-prismjs

Adds syntax highlighting to code blocks in markdown files using
[PrismJS](http://prismjs.com/).

## Install

`npm install gatsby-transformer-remark gatsby-remark-prismjs prismjs`

## How to use

```javascript
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
    options: {
      plugins: [
        {
          resolve: `gatsby-remark-prismjs`,
          options: {
            // Class prefix for <pre> tags containing syntax highlighting;
            // defaults to 'language-' (e.g. <pre class="language-js">).
            // If your site loads Prism into the browser at runtime,
            // (e.g. for use with libraries like react-live),
            // you may use this to prevent Prism from re-processing syntax.
            // This is an uncommon use-case though;
            // If you're unsure, it's best to use the default value.
            classPrefix: "language-",
            // This is used to allow setting a language for inline code
            // (i.e. single backticks) by creating a separator.
            // This separator is a string and will do no white-space
            // stripping.
            // A suggested value for English speakers is the non-ascii
            // character '›'.
            inlineCodeMarker: null,
            // This lets you set up language aliases.  For example,
            // setting this to '{ sh: "bash" }' will let you use
            // the language "sh" which will highlight using the
            // bash highlighter.
            aliases: {},
            // This toggles the display of line numbers globally alongside the code.
            // To use it, add the following line in gatsby-browser.js
            // right after importing the prism color scheme:
            //  require("prismjs/plugins/line-numbers/prism-line-numbers.css")
            // Defaults to false.
            // If you wish to only show line numbers on certain code blocks,
            // leave false and use the {numberLines: true} syntax below
            showLineNumbers: false,
            // If setting this to true, the parser won't handle and highlight inline
            // code used in markdown i.e. single backtick code like `this`.
            noInlineHighlight: false,
            // This adds a new language definition to Prism or extend an already
            // existing language definition. More details on this option can be
            // found under the header "Add new language definition or extend an
            // existing language" below.
            languageExtensions: [
              {
                language: "superscript",
                extend: "javascript",
                definition: {
                  superscript_types: /(SuperType)/,
                },
                insertBefore: {
                  function: {
                    superscript_keywords: /(superif|superelse)/,
                  },
                },
              },
            ],
            // Customize the prompt used in shell output
            // Values below are default
            prompt: {
              user: "root",
              host: "localhost",
              global: false,
            },
            // By default the HTML entities <>&'" are escaped.
            // Add additional HTML escapes by providing a mapping
            // of HTML entities and their escape value IE: { '}': '&#123;' }
            escapeEntities: {},
          },
        },
      ],
    },
  },
]
```

### Include CSS

#### Required: Pick a PrismJS theme or create your own

PrismJS ships with a number of [themes][5] (previewable on the [PrismJS
website][6]) that you can easily include in your Gatsby site, or you can build
your own by copying and modifying an example (which is what we've done for
[gatsbyjs.org](https://gatsbyjs.org)).

To load a theme, just require its CSS file in your `gatsby-browser.js` file, e.g.

```javascript
// gatsby-browser.js
require("prismjs/themes/prism-solarizedlight.css")
```

#### Optional: Add line highlighting styles

If you want to highlight lines of code, you also need to add some additional CSS
that targets our _custom line highlighting implementation_ (which slightly
differs from PrismJS's own plugin for that – more on that later).

For line highlights similar to PrismJS's, try:

```css
.gatsby-highlight-code-line {
  background-color: #feb;
  display: block;
  margin-right: -1em;
  margin-left: -1em;
  padding-right: 1em;
  padding-left: 0.75em;
  border-left: 0.25em solid #f99;
}
```

This should work out quite nicely for the "Solarized Light" PrismJS theme we
just added in the previous part. However, you will notice that when a
highlighted line runs wider than the surrounding code block container (causing a
horizontal scrollbar), its background won't be drawn for the initially hidden,
overflowing part. :(

We saw others fix that problem and decided to do so, too. Just add the following
CSS along your PrismJS theme and the styles for `.gatsby-highlight-code-line`:

```css
/**
 * Add back the container background-color, border-radius, padding, margin
 * and overflow that we removed from <pre>.
 */
.gatsby-highlight {
  background-color: #fdf6e3;
  border-radius: 0.3em;
  margin: 0.5em 0;
  padding: 1em;
  overflow: auto;
}

/**
 * Remove the default PrismJS theme background-color, border-radius, margin,
 * padding and overflow.
 * 1. Make the element just wide enough to fit its content.
 * 2. Always fill the visible space in .gatsby-highlight.
 * 3. Adjust the position of the line numbers
 */
.gatsby-highlight pre[class*="language-"] {
  background-color: transparent;
  margin: 0;
  padding: 0;
  overflow: initial;
  float: left; /* 1 */
  min-width: 100%; /* 2 */
}
```

#### Optional: Add line numbering

If you want to add line numbering alongside your code, you need to
import the corresponding CSS file from PrismJS, right after importing your
colorscheme in `gatsby-browser.js`:

```javascript
// gatsby-browser.js
require("prismjs/plugins/line-numbers/prism-line-numbers.css")
```

Then add in the corresponding CSS:

```css
/**
 * If you already use line highlighting
 */

/* Adjust the position of the line numbers */
.gatsby-highlight pre[class*="language-"].line-numbers {
  padding-left: 2.8em;
}

/**
 * If you only want to use line numbering
 */

.gatsby-highlight {
  background-color: #fdf6e3;
  border-radius: 0.3em;
  margin: 0.5em 0;
  padding: 1em;
  overflow: auto;
}

.gatsby-highlight pre[class*="language-"].line-numbers {
  padding: 0;
  padding-left: 2.8em;
  overflow: initial;
}
```

#### Optional: Add shell prompt

If you want a fancy prompt on anything with `shell` or `bash`, you need to import
the following CSS file in `gatsby-browser.js`:

```javascript
// gatsby-browser.js
require("prismjs/plugins/command-line/prism-command-line.css")
```

If you want to change the resulting prompt, use the following CSS:

```css
.command-line-prompt > span:before {
  color: #999;
  content: " ";
  display: block;
  padding-right: 0.8em;
}

/* Prompt for all users */
.command-line-prompt > span[data-user]:before {
  content: "[" attr(data-user) "@" attr(data-host) "] $";
}

/* Prompt for root */
.command-line-prompt > span[data-user="root"]:before {
  content: "[" attr(data-user) "@" attr(data-host) "] #";
}

.command-line-prompt > span[data-prompt]:before {
  content: attr(data-prompt);
}
```

### Usage in Markdown

This is some beautiful code:

    ```javascript
    // In your gatsby-config.js
    plugins: [
      {
        resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
        options: {
          plugins: [
            `gatsby-remark-prismjs`,
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
    ```

### Line numbering

To see the line numbers alongside your code, you can use the `numberLines` option:

    ```javascript{numberLines: true}
    // In your gatsby-config.js
    plugins: [
      {
        resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
        options: {
          plugins: [
            `gatsby-remark-prismjs`,
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
    ```

You can also start numbering at any index you wish (here, numbering
will start at index 5):

    ```javascript{numberLines: 5}
    // In your gatsby-config.js
    plugins: [
      {
        resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
        options: {
          plugins: [
            `gatsby-remark-prismjs`,
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
    ```

### Line highlighting

You can also add line highlighting. It adds a span around lines of code with a
special class `.gatsby-highlight-code-line` that you can target with styles. See
this README for more info.

To highlight lines, you can use one of the following directives as comments in your
code:

- `highlight-line` highlights the current line;
- `highlight-next-line` highlights the next line;
- `highlight-start` highlights the lines until the matching `hightlight-end`;
- `highlight-range{1, 4-6}` will highlight the next line, and the fourth, fifth and sixth lines.

````
```jsx
class FlavorForm extends React.Component { // highlight-line
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = {value: 'coconut'};

    this.handleChange = this.handleChange.bind(this);
    this.handleSubmit = this.handleSubmit.bind(this);
  }

  handleChange(event) {
    // highlight-next-line
    this.setState({value: event.target.value});
  }

  // highlight-start
  handleSubmit(event) {
    alert('Your favorite flavor is: ' + this.state.value);
    event.preventDefault();
  }
  // highlight-end

  render() {
    return (
      { /* highlight-range{1,4-9,12} */ }
      <form onSubmit={this.handleSubmit}>
        <label>
          Pick your favorite flavor:
          <select value={this.state.value} onChange={this.handleChange}>
            <option value="grapefruit">Grapefruit</option>
            <option value="lime">Lime</option>
            <option value="coconut">Coconut</option>
            <option value="mango">Mango</option>
          </select>
        </label>
        <input type="submit" value="Submit" />
      </form>
    );
  }
}
```
````

You can also specify the highlighted lines outside of the code block.
In the following code snippet, lines 1 and 4 through 6 will get the line
highlighting. The line range parsing is done with
<https://www.npmjs.com/package/parse-numeric-range>.

````
```javascript{1,4-6}
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
    options: {
      plugins: [
        `gatsby-remark-prismjs`,
      ]
    }
  }
]
```
````

### Shell prompt

To show fancy prompts next to shell commands (only triggers on `bash` and `shell`), either set `prompt.global` to `true` in `gatsby-config.js`,
or pass at least one of `{outputLines: <range>}`, `{promptUser: <user>}`, or `{promptHost: <host>}` to a snippet

By default, every line gets a prompt appended to the start, this behaviour can be changed by specifying `{outputLines: <range>}`
to the language.

````
```shell{outputLines: 2-10,12}
````

The user and host used in the appended prompt is pulled from the `prompt.user` and `prompt.host` values,
unless explicitly overridden by the `promptUser` and `promptHost` options in the snippet, e.g.:

````
```shell{promptUser: alice}{promptHost: dev.localhost}
````

### Diff code blocks

You can specify language for `diff` code blocks by using `diff-[language]` to enable syntax highlighting in diffs:

````
```diff-javascript
````

### Line hiding

As well as highlighting lines, it's possible to _hide_ lines from the rendered output. Often this is handy when using `gatsby-remark-prismjs` along with [`gatsby-remark-embed-snippet`](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-remark-embed-snippet/).

As with highlighting lines, you can control which lines to hide by adding directives as comments in your source code.

The available directives are:

- `hide-line` hides the current line;
- `hide-next-line` hides the next line;
- `hide-start` hides the lines until the matching `hide-end`;
- `hide-range{1, 4-6}` will hide the next line, and the fourth, fifth and sixth lines.

The hide-line directives will always be hidden too. Check out [the using-remark example site](https://using-remark.gatsbyjs.org/embed-snippets/) to see how this looks on a live site.

### Inline code blocks

In addition to fenced code blocks, inline code blocks will be passed through
PrismJS as well.

If you set the `inlineCodeMarker`, then you can also specify a format style.

Here's an example of how to use this if the `inlineCodeMarker` was set to `±`:

    I can highlight `css±.some-class { background-color: red }` with CSS syntax.

This will be rendered in a `<code class=language-css>` with just the (syntax
highlighted) text of `.some-class { background-color: red }`

### Disabling syntax highlighting

If you need to prevent any escaping or highlighting, you can use the `none`
language; the inner contents will not be changed at all.

### Add new language definition or extend an existing language

You can provide a language extension by giving a single object or an array of
language extension objects as the `languageExtensions` option.

A language extension object looks like this:

```javascript
languageExtensions: [
  {
    language: "superscript",
    extend: "javascript",
    definition: {
      superscript_types: /(SuperType)/,
    },
    insertBefore: {
      function: {
        superscript_keywords: /(superif|superelse)/,
      },
    },
  },
]
```

used options:

- `language` (optional) The name of the new language.
- `extend` (optional) The language you wish to extend.
- `definition` (optional) This is the Prism language definition.
- `insertBefore` (optional) Is used to define where in the language definition we want to insert our extension.

More information of the format can be found here:
https://prismjs.com/extending.html

Note:

- One of the parameters `language` and `extend` is needed.
- If only `language` is given, a new language will be defined from scratch.
- If only `extend` is given, an extension will be made to the given language.
- If both `language` and `extend` is given, a new language that extends the `extend` language will
  be defined.

In case a language is extended, note that the definitions will not be merged.
If the extended language definition and the given definition contains the same
token, the original pattern will be overwritten.

One of the parameters `definition` and `insertBefore` needs to be defined.
`insertBefore` needs to be combined with `definition` or `extend` (otherwise
there will not be any language definition tokens to insert before).

In addition to this extension parameters the css also needs to be updated to
get a style for the new tokens. Prism will wrap the matched tokens with a
`span` element and give it the classes `token` and the token name you defined.
In the example above we would match `superif` and `superelse`. In the html
it would result in the following when a match is found:

```html
<span class="token superscript_keywords">superif</span>
```

## Implementation notes

### Line highlighting

Please note that we do _not_ use PrismJS's
[line highlighting plugin](http://prismjs.com/plugins/line-highlight/). Here's
why:

- [PrismJS plugins][3] assume you're running things client side, but we are
  _build-time folks_.
- PrismJS's line highlighting plugin [implementation][1] does not allow for
  solid background colors or 100% wide backgrounds that are drawn beyond the
  _visible part_ of the container when content is overflowing.

Our approach follows the [Pygments-based][2] implementation of the [React
Tutorial/Documentation][4] for line highlights:

- It uses a wrapper element `<div class="gatsby-highlight">` around the
  PrismJS-formatted `<pre><code>`-blocks.
- Highlighted lines are wrapped in `<span class="gatsby-highlight-code-line">`.
- We insert a linebreak before the closing tag of `.gatsby-highlight-code-line`
  so it ends up at the start of the following line.

With all of this in place, we can apply `float:left; min-width:100%` to `<pre>`,
throw our overflow and background on `.gatsby-highlight`, and use
`display:block` on `.gatsby-highlight-code-line` – all of this coming together
to facilitate the desired line highlight behavior.

### Line numbering

Because [the line numbering PrismJS plugin][7] runs client-side, a few adaptations were required to make it work:

- A class `.line-numbers` is dynamically added to the `<pre>` element.
- A new node `<span class="line-numbers-rows">` is added right before the closing `</pre>`
  containing as many empty `<span>`s as there are lines.

See the [client-side PrismJS implementation][8] for reference.

[1]: https://github.com/PrismJS/prism/tree/8eb0ab6f76484ca47fa7acbf77657fab17b03ca7/plugins/line-highlight
[2]: https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/00ba97a354e841701b4b83983c3a3904895e7b87/docs/_config.yml#L10
[3]: http://prismjs.com/#plugins
[4]: https://reactjs.org/tutorial/tutorial.html
[5]: https://github.com/PrismJS/prism/tree/1d5047df37aacc900f8270b1c6215028f6988eb1/themes
[6]: http://prismjs.com/
[7]: https://prismjs.com/plugins/line-numbers/
[8]: https://github.com/PrismJS/prism/blob/master/plugins/line-numbers/prism-line-numbers.js#L69-L115

Commit message:

Expose Full Line-Length Diff Highlighting
Enabled a config param to the remark-prism plugin that allows Diff code blocks
to have the entire diff'd line be highlighted

packages/gatsby-remark-prismjs/README.md, after:

# gatsby-remark-prismjs

Adds syntax highlighting to code blocks in markdown files using
[PrismJS](http://prismjs.com/).

## Install

`npm install gatsby-transformer-remark gatsby-remark-prismjs prismjs`

## How to use

```javascript
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
    options: {
      plugins: [
        {
          resolve: `gatsby-remark-prismjs`,
          options: {
            // Class prefix for <pre> tags containing syntax highlighting;
            // defaults to 'language-' (e.g. <pre class="language-js">).
            // If your site loads Prism into the browser at runtime,
            // (e.g. for use with libraries like react-live),
            // you may use this to prevent Prism from re-processing syntax.
            // This is an uncommon use-case though;
            // If you're unsure, it's best to use the default value.
            classPrefix: "language-",
            // This is used to allow setting a language for inline code
            // (i.e. single backticks) by creating a separator.
            // This separator is a string and will do no white-space
            // stripping.
            // A suggested value for English speakers is the non-ascii
            // character '›'.
            inlineCodeMarker: null,
            // This lets you set up language aliases.  For example,
            // setting this to '{ sh: "bash" }' will let you use
            // the language "sh" which will highlight using the
            // bash highlighter.
            aliases: {},
            // This toggles the display of line numbers globally alongside the code.
            // To use it, add the following line in gatsby-browser.js
            // right after importing the prism color scheme:
            //  require("prismjs/plugins/line-numbers/prism-line-numbers.css")
            // Defaults to false.
            // If you wish to only show line numbers on certain code blocks,
            // leave false and use the {numberLines: true} syntax below
            showLineNumbers: false,
            // If setting this to true, the parser won't handle and highlight inline
            // code used in markdown i.e. single backtick code like `this`.
            noInlineHighlight: false,
            // This adds a new language definition to Prism or extend an already
            // existing language definition. More details on this option can be
            // found under the header "Add new language definition or extend an
            // existing language" below.
            languageExtensions: [
              {
                language: "superscript",
                extend: "javascript",
                definition: {
                  superscript_types: /(SuperType)/,
                },
                insertBefore: {
                  function: {
                    superscript_keywords: /(superif|superelse)/,
                  },
                },
              },
            ],
            // Customize the prompt used in shell output
            // Values below are default
            prompt: {
              user: "root",
              host: "localhost",
              global: false,
            },
            // By default the HTML entities <>&'" are escaped.
            // Add additional HTML escapes by providing a mapping
            // of HTML entities and their escape value IE: { '}': '&#123;' }
            escapeEntities: {},
            // Enables full-line highlighting on diff-code-blocks (see below)
            // Disabled by default
            // To use it, add the following line in gatsby-browser.js (after
            //   the selected color scheme):
            //   require("prismjs/plugins/diff-highlight/prism-diff-highlight.css")
            // Not currently enable-able on a per-block basis
            showDiffHighlight: false,
          },
        },
      ],
    },
  },
]
```

### Include CSS

#### Required: Pick a PrismJS theme or create your own

PrismJS ships with a number of [themes][5] (previewable on the [PrismJS
website][6]) that you can easily include in your Gatsby site, or you can build
your own by copying and modifying an example (which is what we've done for
[gatsbyjs.org](https://gatsbyjs.org)).

To load a theme, just require its CSS file in your `gatsby-browser.js` file, e.g.

```javascript
// gatsby-browser.js
require("prismjs/themes/prism-solarizedlight.css")
```

#### Optional: Add line highlighting styles

If you want to highlight lines of code, you also need to add some additional CSS
that targets our _custom line highlighting implementation_ (which slightly
differs from PrismJS's own plugin for that – more on that later).

For line highlights similar to PrismJS's, try:

```css
.gatsby-highlight-code-line {
  background-color: #feb;
  display: block;
  margin-right: -1em;
  margin-left: -1em;
  padding-right: 1em;
  padding-left: 0.75em;
  border-left: 0.25em solid #f99;
}
```

This should work out quite nicely for the "Solarized Light" PrismJS theme we
just added in the previous part. However, you will notice that when a
highlighted line runs wider than the surrounding code block container (causing a
horizontal scrollbar), its background won't be drawn for the initially hidden,
overflowing part. :(

We saw others fix that problem and decided to do so, too. Just add the following
CSS along your PrismJS theme and the styles for `.gatsby-highlight-code-line`:

```css
/**
 * Add back the container background-color, border-radius, padding, margin
 * and overflow that we removed from <pre>.
 */
.gatsby-highlight {
  background-color: #fdf6e3;
  border-radius: 0.3em;
  margin: 0.5em 0;
  padding: 1em;
  overflow: auto;
}

/**
 * Remove the default PrismJS theme background-color, border-radius, margin,
 * padding and overflow.
 * 1. Make the element just wide enough to fit its content.
 * 2. Always fill the visible space in .gatsby-highlight.
 * 3. Adjust the position of the line numbers
 */
.gatsby-highlight pre[class*="language-"] {
  background-color: transparent;
  margin: 0;
  padding: 0;
  overflow: initial;
  float: left; /* 1 */
  min-width: 100%; /* 2 */
}
```

#### Optional: Add line numbering

If you want to add line numbering alongside your code, you need to
import the corresponding CSS file from PrismJS, right after importing your
colorscheme in `gatsby-browser.js`:

```javascript
// gatsby-browser.js
require("prismjs/plugins/line-numbers/prism-line-numbers.css")
```

Then add in the corresponding CSS:

```css
/**
 * If you already use line highlighting
 */

/* Adjust the position of the line numbers */
.gatsby-highlight pre[class*="language-"].line-numbers {
  padding-left: 2.8em;
}

/**
 * If you only want to use line numbering
 */

.gatsby-highlight {
  background-color: #fdf6e3;
  border-radius: 0.3em;
  margin: 0.5em 0;
  padding: 1em;
  overflow: auto;
}

.gatsby-highlight pre[class*="language-"].line-numbers {
  padding: 0;
  padding-left: 2.8em;
  overflow: initial;
}
```

#### Optional: Add shell prompt

If you want a fancy prompt on anything with `shell` or `bash`, you need to import
the following CSS file in `gatsby-browser.js`:

```javascript
// gatsby-browser.js
require("prismjs/plugins/command-line/prism-command-line.css")
```

If you want to change the resulting prompt, use the following CSS:

```css
.command-line-prompt > span:before {
  color: #999;
  content: " ";
  display: block;
  padding-right: 0.8em;
}

/* Prompt for all users */
.command-line-prompt > span[data-user]:before {
  content: "[" attr(data-user) "@" attr(data-host) "] $";
}

/* Prompt for root */
.command-line-prompt > span[data-user="root"]:before {
  content: "[" attr(data-user) "@" attr(data-host) "] #";
}

.command-line-prompt > span[data-prompt]:before {
  content: attr(data-prompt);
}
```

### Usage in Markdown

This is some beautiful code:

    ```javascript
    // In your gatsby-config.js
    plugins: [
      {
        resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
        options: {
          plugins: [
            `gatsby-remark-prismjs`,
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
    ```

### Line numbering

To see the line numbers alongside your code, you can use the `numberLines` option:

    ```javascript{numberLines: true}
    // In your gatsby-config.js
    plugins: [
      {
        resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
        options: {
          plugins: [
            `gatsby-remark-prismjs`,
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
    ```

You can also start numbering at any index you wish (here, numbering
will start at index 5):

    ```javascript{numberLines: 5}
    // In your gatsby-config.js
    plugins: [
      {
        resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
        options: {
          plugins: [
            `gatsby-remark-prismjs`,
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
    ```

### Line highlighting

You can also add line highlighting. It adds a span around lines of code with a
special class `.gatsby-highlight-code-line` that you can target with styles. See
this README for more info.

To highlight lines, you can use one of the following directives as comments in your
code:

- `highlight-line` highlights the current line;
- `highlight-next-line` highlights the next line;
- `highlight-start` highlights the lines until the matching `hightlight-end`;
- `highlight-range{1, 4-6}` will highlight the next line, and the fourth, fifth and sixth lines.

````
```jsx
class FlavorForm extends React.Component { // highlight-line
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
    this.state = {value: 'coconut'};

    this.handleChange = this.handleChange.bind(this);
    this.handleSubmit = this.handleSubmit.bind(this);
  }

  handleChange(event) {
    // highlight-next-line
    this.setState({value: event.target.value});
  }

  // highlight-start
  handleSubmit(event) {
    alert('Your favorite flavor is: ' + this.state.value);
    event.preventDefault();
  }
  // highlight-end

  render() {
    return (
      { /* highlight-range{1,4-9,12} */ }
      <form onSubmit={this.handleSubmit}>
        <label>
          Pick your favorite flavor:
          <select value={this.state.value} onChange={this.handleChange}>
            <option value="grapefruit">Grapefruit</option>
            <option value="lime">Lime</option>
            <option value="coconut">Coconut</option>
            <option value="mango">Mango</option>
          </select>
        </label>
        <input type="submit" value="Submit" />
      </form>
    );
  }
}
```
````

You can also specify the highlighted lines outside of the code block.
In the following code snippet, lines 1 and 4 through 6 will get the line
highlighting. The line range parsing is done with
<https://www.npmjs.com/package/parse-numeric-range>.

````
```javascript{1,4-6}
// In your gatsby-config.js
plugins: [
  {
    resolve: `gatsby-transformer-remark`,
    options: {
      plugins: [
        `gatsby-remark-prismjs`,
      ]
    }
  }
]
```
````

### Shell prompt

To show fancy prompts next to shell commands (only triggers on `bash` and `shell`), either set `prompt.global` to `true` in `gatsby-config.js`,
or pass at least one of `{outputLines: <range>}`, `{promptUser: <user>}`, or `{promptHost: <host>}` to a snippet

By default, every line gets a prompt appended to the start, this behaviour can be changed by specifying `{outputLines: <range>}`
to the language.

````
```shell{outputLines: 2-10,12}
````

The user and host used in the appended prompt is pulled from the `prompt.user` and `prompt.host` values,
unless explicitly overridden by the `promptUser` and `promptHost` options in the snippet, e.g.:

````
```shell{promptUser: alice}{promptHost: dev.localhost}
````

### Diff code blocks

You can specify language for `diff` code blocks by using `diff-[language]` to enable syntax highlighting in diffs. Canonically, when writing code _diffs_, the code should be indented by two characters. If the code is being changed, the first character should be a `+`, `-`, or `!` otherwise left a space. The second character should always be a space. Git-style file-location coordinates need not be indented.

````
```diff-javascript
@@ -4,6 +4,5 @@
  const doTheThing = aParm => {
+   console.log(`Parm is: ${aParm}`)
-   console.log('Hit this function')
!   console.log('Rubber duck debugging anybody?')
    return true
  }
```
````

The default rendering style for diff code blocks will be a colored `+` or `-` symbol and _not_ full line-length highlighting. This is depicted in the **first** example here: https://prismjs.com/plugins/diff-highlight/

This plugin supports a configuration parameter, `showDiffHighlight`, which will add full line-length highlighting to _all_ Diff code blocks used by your Gatsby site with the format: `+` -> Highlight green, `-` -> highlight red, and `!` -> bolded line. Simply pass the configuration parameter with `true` and add the following to your `gatsby-browser.js` (_after_ the require for your chosen theme):

```js
require("prismjs/plugins/diff-highlight/prism-diff-highlight.css")
```

### Line hiding

As well as highlighting lines, it's possible to _hide_ lines from the rendered output. Often this is handy when using `gatsby-remark-prismjs` along with [`gatsby-remark-embed-snippet`](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-remark-embed-snippet/).

As with highlighting lines, you can control which lines to hide by adding directives as comments in your source code.

The available directives are:

- `hide-line` hides the current line;
- `hide-next-line` hides the next line;
- `hide-start` hides the lines until the matching `hide-end`;
- `hide-range{1, 4-6}` will hide the next line, and the fourth, fifth and sixth lines.

The hide-line directives will always be hidden too. Check out [the using-remark example site](https://using-remark.gatsbyjs.org/embed-snippets/) to see how this looks on a live site.

### Inline code blocks

In addition to fenced code blocks, inline code blocks will be passed through
PrismJS as well.

If you set the `inlineCodeMarker`, then you can also specify a format style.

Here's an example of how to use this if the `inlineCodeMarker` was set to `±`:

    I can highlight `css±.some-class { background-color: red }` with CSS syntax.

This will be rendered in a `<code class=language-css>` with just the (syntax
highlighted) text of `.some-class { background-color: red }`

### Disabling syntax highlighting

If you need to prevent any escaping or highlighting, you can use the `none`
language; the inner contents will not be changed at all.

### Add new language definition or extend an existing language

You can provide a language extension by giving a single object or an array of
language extension objects as the `languageExtensions` option.

A language extension object looks like this:

```javascript
languageExtensions: [
  {
    language: "superscript",
    extend: "javascript",
    definition: {
      superscript_types: /(SuperType)/,
    },
    insertBefore: {
      function: {
        superscript_keywords: /(superif|superelse)/,
      },
    },
  },
]
```

used options:

- `language` (optional) The name of the new language.
- `extend` (optional) The language you wish to extend.
- `definition` (optional) This is the Prism language definition.
- `insertBefore` (optional) Is used to define where in the language definition we want to insert our extension.

More information of the format can be found here:
https://prismjs.com/extending.html

Note:

- One of the parameters `language` and `extend` is needed.
- If only `language` is given, a new language will be defined from scratch.
- If only `extend` is given, an extension will be made to the given language.
- If both `language` and `extend` is given, a new language that extends the `extend` language will
  be defined.

In case a language is extended, note that the definitions will not be merged.
If the extended language definition and the given definition contains the same
token, the original pattern will be overwritten.

One of the parameters `definition` and `insertBefore` needs to be defined.
`insertBefore` needs to be combined with `definition` or `extend` (otherwise
there will not be any language definition tokens to insert before).

In addition to this extension parameters the css also needs to be updated to
get a style for the new tokens. Prism will wrap the matched tokens with a
`span` element and give it the classes `token` and the token name you defined.
In the example above we would match `superif` and `superelse`. In the html
it would result in the following when a match is found:

```html
<span class="token superscript_keywords">superif</span>
```

## Implementation notes

### Line highlighting

Please note that we do _not_ use PrismJS's
[line highlighting plugin](http://prismjs.com/plugins/line-highlight/). Here's
why:

- [PrismJS plugins][3] assume you're running things client side, but we are
  _build-time folks_.
- PrismJS's line highlighting plugin [implementation][1] does not allow for
  solid background colors or 100% wide backgrounds that are drawn beyond the
  _visible part_ of the container when content is overflowing.

Our approach follows the [Pygments-based][2] implementation of the [React
Tutorial/Documentation][4] for line highlights:

- It uses a wrapper element `<div class="gatsby-highlight">` around the
  PrismJS-formatted `<pre><code>`-blocks.
- Highlighted lines are wrapped in `<span class="gatsby-highlight-code-line">`.
- We insert a linebreak before the closing tag of `.gatsby-highlight-code-line`
  so it ends up at the start of the following line.

With all of this in place, we can apply `float:left; min-width:100%` to `<pre>`,
throw our overflow and background on `.gatsby-highlight`, and use
`display:block` on `.gatsby-highlight-code-line` – all of this coming together
to facilitate the desired line highlight behavior.

**NOTE:** This is _not_ the same as the Diff code-block full line-length
highlighting for diff'd lines. Those "line highlights" work great beyond
the above.

### Line numbering

Because [the line numbering PrismJS plugin][7] runs client-side, a few adaptations were required to make it work:

- A class `.line-numbers` is dynamically added to the `<pre>` element.
- A new node `<span class="line-numbers-rows">` is added right before the closing `</pre>`
  containing as many empty `<span>`s as there are lines.

See the [client-side PrismJS implementation][8] for reference.

[1]: https://github.com/PrismJS/prism/tree/8eb0ab6f76484ca47fa7acbf77657fab17b03ca7/plugins/line-highlight
[2]: https://github.com/facebook/react/blob/00ba97a354e841701b4b83983c3a3904895e7b87/docs/_config.yml#L10
[3]: http://prismjs.com/#plugins
[4]: https://reactjs.org/tutorial/tutorial.html
[5]: https://github.com/PrismJS/prism/tree/1d5047df37aacc900f8270b1c6215028f6988eb1/themes
[6]: http://prismjs.com/
[7]: https://prismjs.com/plugins/line-numbers/
[8]: https://github.com/PrismJS/prism/blob/master/plugins/line-numbers/prism-line-numbers.js#L69-L115
