examples/using-remark/src/pages/2016-04-15---hello-world-kitchen-sink/index.md, before:

---
title: "Hello World: The remark Kitchen Sink"
date: "2016-04-15"
draft: false
author: Jay Gatsby
tags:
  - remark
  - Kitchen Sink
  - Images
---
![](joshua-earle-234740.jpg)
*Photo by [Joshua Earle](https://unsplash.com/@joshuaearle) via [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/@joshuaearle?photo=-87JyMb9ZfU)*

## Markdown in Gatsby

Markdown parsing in Gatsby is done with [`gatsby-transformer-remark`](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/packages/gatsby-transformer-remark/), which uses the excellent [remark](http://remark.js.org/) under the hood.

The examples on this page are partially taken from  [Markdown Here's Cheatsheet](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet) ([CC-BY](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/)) and
should cover the basic syntax.

@todo gatsby-remark-autolink-headers

---

This is intended as a quick reference and showcase. For more complete info, see [John Gruber's original spec](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) and the [Github-flavored Markdown info page](http://github.github.com/github-flavored-markdown/).

##### Table of Contents  
[Headers](#headers)  
[Emphasis](#emphasis)  
[Lists](#lists)  
[Links](#links)  
[Images](#images)  
[Tables](#tables)  
[Blockquotes](#blockquotes)  
[Inline HTML](#html)  
[Horizontal Rule](#hr)  
[Line Breaks](#lines)  

<a name="headers"></a>

## Headers

```no-highlight
# H1
## H2
### H3
#### H4
##### H5
###### H6

Alternatively, for H1 and H2, an underline-ish style:

Alt-H1
======

Alt-H2
------
```

# H1
## H2
### H3
#### H4
##### H5
###### H6

Alternatively, for H1 and H2, an underline-ish style:

Alt-H1
======

Alt-H2
------

<a name="emphasis"></a>

## Emphasis

```no-highlight
Emphasis, aka italics, with *asterisks* or _underscores_.

Strong emphasis, aka bold, with **asterisks** or __underscores__.

Combined emphasis with **asterisks and _underscores_**.

Strikethrough uses two tildes. ~~Scratch this.~~
```

Emphasis, aka italics, with *asterisks* or _underscores_.

Strong emphasis, aka bold, with **asterisks** or __underscores__.

Combined emphasis with **asterisks and _underscores_**.

Strikethrough uses two tildes. ~~Scratch this.~~


<a name="lists"></a>

## Lists

In this example, leading and trailing spaces are shown with with dots: ⋅

```no-highlight
1. First ordered list item
2. Another item
⋅⋅⋅* Unordered sub-list.
1. Actual numbers don't matter, just that it's a number
⋅⋅⋅1. Ordered sub-list
4. And another item.

⋅⋅⋅You can have properly indented paragraphs within list items. Notice the blank line above, and the leading spaces (at least one, but we'll use three here to also align the raw Markdown).

⋅⋅⋅To have a line break without a paragraph, you will need to use two trailing spaces.⋅⋅
⋅⋅⋅Note that this line is separate, but within the same paragraph.⋅⋅

* Unordered list can use asterisks
- Or minuses
+ Or pluses
```

1. First ordered list item
2. Another item
   * Unordered sub-list.
1. Actual numbers don't matter, just that it's a number
   1. Ordered sub-list
4. And another item.

  You can have properly indented paragraphs within list items. Notice the blank line above, and the leading spaces (at least one, but we'll use three here to also align the raw Markdown).

  To have a line break without a paragraph, you will need to use two trailing spaces.  
  Note that this line is separate, but within the same paragraph.  

* Unordered list can use asterisks
- Or minuses
+ Or pluses

<a name="links"></a>

## Links

There are two ways to create links.

```no-highlight
[I'm an inline-style link](https://www.google.com)

[I'm an inline-style link with title](https://www.google.com "Google's Homepage")

[I'm a reference-style link][Arbitrary case-insensitive reference text]

[I'm a relative reference to a repository file](../blob/master/LICENSE)

[You can use numbers for reference-style link definitions][1]

Or leave it empty and use the [link text itself].

URLs and URLs in angle brackets will automatically get turned into links.
http://www.example.com or <http://www.example.com> and sometimes
example.com (but not on Github, for example).

Some text to show that the reference links can follow later.

[arbitrary case-insensitive reference text]: https://www.mozilla.org
[1]: http://slashdot.org
[link text itself]: http://www.reddit.com
```

[I'm an inline-style link](https://www.google.com)

[I'm an inline-style link with title](https://www.google.com "Google's Homepage")

[I'm a reference-style link][Arbitrary case-insensitive reference text]

[I'm a relative reference to a repository file](../blob/master/LICENSE)

[You can use numbers for reference-style link definitions][1]

Or leave it empty and use the [link text itself].

URLs and URLs in angle brackets will automatically get turned into links.
http://www.example.com or <http://www.example.com> and sometimes
example.com (but not on Github, for example).

Some text to show that the reference links can follow later.

[arbitrary case-insensitive reference text]: https://www.mozilla.org
[1]: http://slashdot.org
[link text itself]: http://www.reddit.com

<a name="images"></a>

## Images

```no-highlight
Here's our logo (hover to see the title text):

Inline-style:
![alt text](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/raw/master/src/common/images/icon48.png "Logo Title Text 1")

Reference-style:
![alt text][logo]

[logo]: https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/raw/master/src/common/images/icon48.png "Logo Title Text 2"
```

Here's our logo (hover to see the title text):

Inline-style:
![alt text](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/raw/master/src/common/images/icon48.png "Logo Title Text 1")

Reference-style:
![alt text][logo]

[logo]: https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/raw/master/src/common/images/icon48.png "Logo Title Text 2"

<a name="tables"></a>

## Tables

Tables aren't part of the core Markdown spec, but they are part of GFM and *Markdown Here* supports them. They are an easy way of adding tables to your email -- a task that would otherwise require copy-pasting from another application.

```no-highlight
Colons can be used to align columns.

| Tables        | Are           | Cool  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| -----:|
| col 3 is      | right-aligned | $1600 |
| col 2 is      | centered      |   $12 |
| zebra stripes | are neat      |    $1 |

There must be at least 3 dashes separating each header cell.
The outer pipes (|) are optional, and you don't need to make the
raw Markdown line up prettily. You can also use inline Markdown.

Markdown | Less | Pretty
--- | --- | ---
*Still* | `renders` | **nicely**
1 | 2 | 3
```

Colons can be used to align columns.

| Tables        | Are           | Cool |
| ------------- |:-------------:| -----:|
| col 3 is      | right-aligned | $1600 |
| col 2 is      | centered      |   $12 |
| zebra stripes | are neat      |    $1 |

There must be at least 3 dashes separating each header cell. The outer pipes (|) are optional, and you don't need to make the raw Markdown line up prettily. You can also use inline Markdown.

Markdown | Less | Pretty
--- | --- | ---
*Still* | `renders` | **nicely**
1 | 2 | 3

<a name="blockquotes"></a>

## Blockquotes

```no-highlight
> Blockquotes are very handy in email to emulate reply text.
> This line is part of the same quote.

Quote break.

> This is a very long line that will still be quoted properly when it wraps. Oh boy let's keep writing to make sure this is long enough to actually wrap for everyone. Oh, you can *put* **Markdown** into a blockquote.
```

> Blockquotes are very handy in email to emulate reply text.
> This line is part of the same quote.

Quote break.

> This is a very long line that will still be quoted properly when it wraps. Oh boy let's keep writing to make sure this is long enough to actually wrap for everyone. Oh, you can *put* **Markdown** into a blockquote.

<a name="html"></a>

## Inline HTML

You can also use raw HTML in your Markdown, and it'll mostly work pretty well.

```no-highlight
<dl>
  <dt>Definition list</dt>
  <dd>Is something people use sometimes.</dd>

  <dt>Markdown in HTML</dt>
  <dd>Does *not* work **very** well. Use HTML <em>tags</em>.</dd>
</dl>
```

<dl>
  <dt>Definition list</dt>
  <dd>Is something people use sometimes.</dd>

  <dt>Markdown in HTML</dt>
  <dd>Does *not* work **very** well. Use HTML <em>tags</em>.</dd>
</dl>

<a name="hr"></a>

## Horizontal Rule

```
Three or more...

---

Hyphens

***

Asterisks

___

Underscores
```

Three or more...

---

Hyphens

***

Asterisks

___

Underscores

<a name="lines"></a>

## Line Breaks

Here are some things to try out:

```
Here's a line for us to start with.

This line is separated from the one above by two newlines, so it will be a *separate paragraph*.

This line is also a separate paragraph, but...
This line is only separated by a single newline, so it's a separate line in the *same paragraph*.
```

Here's a line for us to start with.

This line is separated from the one above by two newlines, so it will be a *separate paragraph*.

This line is also begins a separate paragraph, but...  
This line is only separated by a single newline, so it's a separate line in the *same paragraph*.

Commit message:

Various copy improvements
* improve code highlighting article, add source code for the line highlight example
* add a paragraph on gatsby-remark-autolink-headers
* expand on gatsby-remark-responsive-image a bit
* add example options for gatsby-remark-smartypants
* mention gatsby-remark-smartypants

examples/using-remark/src/pages/2016-04-15---hello-world-kitchen-sink/index.md, after:

---
title: "Hello World: The remark Kitchen Sink"
date: "2016-04-15"
draft: false
author: Jay Gatsby
tags:
  - remark
  - Kitchen Sink
  - Images
---
![](joshua-earle-234740.jpg)
*Photo by [Joshua Earle](https://unsplash.com/@joshuaearle) via [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/@joshuaearle?photo=-87JyMb9ZfU)*

**_Note how all headlines below show an anchor link when you hover them?_**  
That's [gatsby-remark-autolink-headers][5] hooking up all `MarkdownRemark`
headers with anchor links for us.

## Markdown in Gatsby

Markdown parsing in Gatsby is done with [gatsby-transformer-remark][1],
which uses the excellent [remark][2] under the hood.  
Alongside remark we also use [gatsby-remark-smartypants][6], which provides
smart punctuation through [retext-smartypants][7].

The examples on this page cover the basic Markdown syntax and are adapted from
[Markdown Here's Cheatsheet][3] ([CC-BY][4]).

---

This is intended as a quick reference and showcase. For more complete info, see [John Gruber's original spec](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) and the [Github-flavored Markdown info page](http://github.github.com/github-flavored-markdown/).

##### Table of Contents  
[Headers](#headers)  
[Emphasis](#emphasis)  
[Lists](#lists)  
[Links](#links)  
[Images](#images)  
[Tables](#tables)  
[Blockquotes](#blockquotes)  
[Inline HTML](#html)  
[Horizontal Rule](#hr)  
[Line Breaks](#lines)  

<a name="headers"></a>

## Headers

```no-highlight
# H1
## H2
### H3
#### H4
##### H5
###### H6

Alternatively, for H1 and H2, an underline-ish style:

Alt-H1
======

Alt-H2
------
```

# H1
## H2
### H3
#### H4
##### H5
###### H6

Alternatively, for H1 and H2, an underline-ish style:

Alt-H1
======

Alt-H2
------

<a name="emphasis"></a>

## Emphasis

```no-highlight
Emphasis, aka italics, with *asterisks* or _underscores_.

Strong emphasis, aka bold, with **asterisks** or __underscores__.

Combined emphasis with **asterisks and _underscores_**.

Strikethrough uses two tildes. ~~Scratch this.~~
```

Emphasis, aka italics, with *asterisks* or _underscores_.

Strong emphasis, aka bold, with **asterisks** or __underscores__.

Combined emphasis with **asterisks and _underscores_**.

Strikethrough uses two tildes. ~~Scratch this.~~


<a name="lists"></a>

## Lists

In this example, leading and trailing spaces are shown with with dots: ⋅

```no-highlight
1. First ordered list item
2. Another item
⋅⋅⋅* Unordered sub-list.
1. Actual numbers don't matter, just that it's a number
⋅⋅⋅1. Ordered sub-list
4. And another item.

⋅⋅⋅You can have properly indented paragraphs within list items. Notice the blank line above, and the leading spaces (at least one, but we'll use three here to also align the raw Markdown).

⋅⋅⋅To have a line break without a paragraph, you will need to use two trailing spaces.⋅⋅
⋅⋅⋅Note that this line is separate, but within the same paragraph.⋅⋅

* Unordered list can use asterisks
- Or minuses
+ Or pluses
```

1. First ordered list item
2. Another item
   * Unordered sub-list.
1. Actual numbers don't matter, just that it's a number
   1. Ordered sub-list
4. And another item.

  You can have properly indented paragraphs within list items. Notice the blank line above, and the leading spaces (at least one, but we'll use three here to also align the raw Markdown).

  To have a line break without a paragraph, you will need to use two trailing spaces.  
  Note that this line is separate, but within the same paragraph.  

* Unordered list can use asterisks
- Or minuses
+ Or pluses

<a name="links"></a>

## Links

There are two ways to create links.

```no-highlight
[I'm an inline-style link](https://www.google.com)

[I'm an inline-style link with title](https://www.google.com "Google's Homepage")

[I'm a reference-style link][Arbitrary case-insensitive reference text]

[I'm a relative reference to a repository file](../blob/master/LICENSE)

[You can use numbers for reference-style link definitions][1]

Or leave it empty and use the [link text itself].

URLs and URLs in angle brackets will automatically get turned into links.
http://www.example.com or <http://www.example.com> and sometimes
example.com (but not on Github, for example).

Some text to show that the reference links can follow later.

[arbitrary case-insensitive reference text]: https://www.mozilla.org
[1]: http://slashdot.org
[link text itself]: http://www.reddit.com
```

[I'm an inline-style link](https://www.google.com)

[I'm an inline-style link with title](https://www.google.com "Google's Homepage")

[I'm a reference-style link][Arbitrary case-insensitive reference text]

[I'm a relative reference to a repository file](../blob/master/LICENSE)

[You can use numbers for reference-style link definitions][1]

Or leave it empty and use the [link text itself].

URLs and URLs in angle brackets will automatically get turned into links.
http://www.example.com or <http://www.example.com> and sometimes
example.com (but not on Github, for example).

Some text to show that the reference links can follow later.

[arbitrary case-insensitive reference text]: https://www.mozilla.org
[1]: http://slashdot.org
[link text itself]: http://www.reddit.com

<a name="images"></a>

## Images

```no-highlight
Here's our logo (hover to see the title text):

Inline-style:
![alt text](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/raw/master/src/common/images/icon48.png "Logo Title Text 1")

Reference-style:
![alt text][logo]

[logo]: https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/raw/master/src/common/images/icon48.png "Logo Title Text 2"
```

Here's our logo (hover to see the title text):

Inline-style:
![alt text](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/raw/master/src/common/images/icon48.png "Logo Title Text 1")

Reference-style:
![alt text][logo]

[logo]: https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/raw/master/src/common/images/icon48.png "Logo Title Text 2"

<a name="tables"></a>

## Tables

Tables aren't part of the core Markdown spec, but they are part of GFM and *Markdown Here* supports them. They are an easy way of adding tables to your email -- a task that would otherwise require copy-pasting from another application.

```no-highlight
Colons can be used to align columns.

| Tables        | Are           | Cool  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| -----:|
| col 3 is      | right-aligned | $1600 |
| col 2 is      | centered      |   $12 |
| zebra stripes | are neat      |    $1 |

There must be at least 3 dashes separating each header cell.
The outer pipes (|) are optional, and you don't need to make the
raw Markdown line up prettily. You can also use inline Markdown.

Markdown | Less | Pretty
--- | --- | ---
*Still* | `renders` | **nicely**
1 | 2 | 3
```

Colons can be used to align columns.

| Tables        | Are           | Cool |
| ------------- |:-------------:| -----:|
| col 3 is      | right-aligned | $1600 |
| col 2 is      | centered      |   $12 |
| zebra stripes | are neat      |    $1 |

There must be at least 3 dashes separating each header cell. The outer pipes (|) are optional, and you don't need to make the raw Markdown line up prettily. You can also use inline Markdown.

Markdown | Less | Pretty
--- | --- | ---
*Still* | `renders` | **nicely**
1 | 2 | 3

<a name="blockquotes"></a>

## Blockquotes

```no-highlight
> Blockquotes are very handy in email to emulate reply text.
> This line is part of the same quote.

Quote break.

> This is a very long line that will still be quoted properly when it wraps. Oh boy let's keep writing to make sure this is long enough to actually wrap for everyone. Oh, you can *put* **Markdown** into a blockquote.
```

> Blockquotes are very handy in email to emulate reply text.
> This line is part of the same quote.

Quote break.

> This is a very long line that will still be quoted properly when it wraps. Oh boy let's keep writing to make sure this is long enough to actually wrap for everyone. Oh, you can *put* **Markdown** into a blockquote.

<a name="html"></a>

## Inline HTML

You can also use raw HTML in your Markdown, and it'll mostly work pretty well.

```no-highlight
<dl>
  <dt>Definition list</dt>
  <dd>Is something people use sometimes.</dd>

  <dt>Markdown in HTML</dt>
  <dd>Does *not* work **very** well. Use HTML <em>tags</em>.</dd>
</dl>
```

<dl>
  <dt>Definition list</dt>
  <dd>Is something people use sometimes.</dd>

  <dt>Markdown in HTML</dt>
  <dd>Does *not* work **very** well. Use HTML <em>tags</em>.</dd>
</dl>

<a name="hr"></a>

## Horizontal Rule

```
Three or more...

---

Hyphens

***

Asterisks

___

Underscores
```

Three or more...

---

Hyphens

***

Asterisks

___

Underscores

<a name="lines"></a>

## Line Breaks

Here are some things to try out:

```
Here's a line for us to start with.

This line is separated from the one above by two newlines, so it will be a *separate paragraph*.

This line is also a separate paragraph, but...
This line is only separated by a single newline, so it's a separate line in the *same paragraph*.
```

Here's a line for us to start with.

This line is separated from the one above by two newlines, so it will be a *separate paragraph*.

This line is also begins a separate paragraph, but...  
This line is only separated by a single newline, so it's a separate line in the *same paragraph*.

[1]: https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/packages/gatsby-transformer-remark/
[2]: http://remark.js.org/
[3]: https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet
[4]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/
[5]: https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/packages/gatsby-remark-autolink-headers/
[6]: https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/packages/gatsby-remark-smartypants/
[7]: https://github.com/wooorm/retext-smartypants
