docs/docs/recipes/deploying-your-site.md, before:

---
title: "Recipes: Deploying Your Site"
tableOfContentsDepth: 1
---

Showtime. Once you are happy with your site, you are ready to go live with it!

## Preparing for deployment

### Prerequisites

- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start)
- The [Gatsby CLI](/docs/reference/gatsby-cli) installed

### Directions

1. Stop your development server if it is running (`Ctrl + C` on your command line in most cases)

2. For the standard site path at the root directory (`/`), run `gatsby build` using the Gatsby CLI on the command line. The built files will now be in the `public` folder.

```shell
gatsby build
```

3. To include a site path other than `/` (such as `/site-name/`), set a path prefix by adding the following to your `gatsby-config.js` and replacing `yourpathprefix` with your desired path prefix:

```js:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  pathPrefix: `/yourpathprefix`,
}
```

There are a few reasons to do this -- for instance, hosting a blog built with Gatsby on a domain with another site not built on Gatsby. The main site would direct to `example.com`, and the Gatsby site with a path prefix could live at `example.com/blog`.

4. With a path prefix set in `gatsby-config.js`, run `gatsby build` with the `--prefix-paths` flag to automatically add the prefix to the beginning of all Gatsby site URLs and `<Link>` tags.

```shell
gatsby build --prefix-paths
```

5. Make sure that your site looks the same when running `gatsby build` as with `gatsby develop`. By running `gatsby serve` when you build your site, you can test out (and debug if necessary) the finished product before deploying it live.

```shell
gatsby build && gatsby serve
```

### Additional resources

- Walk through building and deploying an example site in [tutorial part one](/docs/tutorial/part-one/#deploying-a-gatsby-site)
- Learn about [performance optimization](/docs/performance/)
- Read about [other deployment related topics](/docs/preparing-for-deployment/)
- Check out the [deployment docs](/docs/deploying-and-hosting/) for specific hosting platforms and how to deploy to them

## Deploying to Netlify

Use [`netlify-cli`](https://www.netlify.com/docs/cli/) to deploy your Gatsby application without leaving the command-line interface.

### Prerequisites

- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start) with a single component `index.js`
- The [netlify-cli](https://www.npmjs.com/package/netlify-cli) package installed
- The [Gatsby CLI](/docs/reference/gatsby-cli) installed

### Directions

1. Build your gatsby application using `gatsby build`

2. Login into Netlify using `netlify login`

3. Run the command `netlify init`. Select the "Create & configure a new site" option.

4. Choose a custom website name if you want or press enter to receive a random one.

5. Choose your [Team](https://www.netlify.com/docs/teams/).

6. Change the deploy path to `public/`

7. Make sure that everything looks fine before deploying to production using `netlify deploy -d . --prod`

### Additional resources

- [Hosting on Netlify](/docs/hosting-on-netlify)
- [gatsby-plugin-netlify](/plugins/gatsby-plugin-netlify)

## Deploying to Vercel

Use [Vercel CLI](https://vercel.com/download) to deploy your Gatsby application without leaving the command-line interface.

### Prerequisites

- A [Vercel](https://vercel.com/signup) account
- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start) with a single component `index.js`
- [Vercel CLI](https://vercel.com/download) package installed
- [Gatsby CLI](/docs/reference/gatsby-cli) installed

### Directions

1. Login into Vercel CLI using `vercel login`

2. Change to the directory of your Gatsby.js application in the Terminal if you aren't already there

3. Run `vercel` to deploy it

### Additional resources

- [Deploying to Vercel](/docs/how-to/previews-deploys-hosting/deploying-to-vercel/)

## Deploying to Cloudflare Workers

Use [`wrangler`](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/tooling/wrangler/) to deploy your Gatsby application globally without leaving the command-line interface.

### Prerequisites

- An account on [Cloudflare](https://dash.cloudflare.com/sign-up)
- A [Workers Unlimited plan](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/about/pricing/) for \$5/month to enable the KV store, which is required to serve the Gatsby files.
- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start) set up with Gatsby's CLI
- [wrangler](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/tooling/wrangler/install/) installed globally (`npm install -g @cloudflare/wrangler`)

### Directions

1. Build your Gatsby application using `gatsby build`
2. Run `wrangler config` where you'll be prompted for your [Cloudflare API token](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/quickstart/#api-token)
3. Run `wrangler init --site`
4. Configure `wrangler.toml`. First add [account ID](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/quickstart/#account-id-and-zone-id) field and then either
   1. A free workers.dev domain by setting `workers_dev = true`
   2. A custom domain on Cloudflare by setting `workers_dev = false`, `zone_id = "abdc..` and `route = customdomain.com/*`
5. In `wrangler.toml` set `bucket = "./public"`
6. Run `wrangler publish` and your site will be deployed in seconds!

### Additional resources

- [Hosting on Cloudflare](/docs/deploying-to-cloudflare-workers)

## Setting up Google Analytics

Use `gatsby-plugin-google-analytics` to track site activity and provide insights into how users access your website.

### Prerequisites

- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start) with a `gatsby-config.js` file and an `index.js` page
- The [Gatsby CLI](/docs/reference/gatsby-cli) installed
- A domain from your provider of choice, e.g. [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/tutorials/get-a-domain/)

### Verify the domain in search.google.com

1. Navigate to the [Google search console](https://search.google.com/search-console/not-verified) to verify the domain by clicking on **Search Property** > **Add Property**. Type in your domain and press Continue.
2. Add a **TXT** record to your DNS configuration. Follow the directions for your provider, or refer to the [Google documentation](https://support.google.com/a/answer/183895?hl=en).

### Linking the domain to Google Analytics admin

1. Log into [Google Analytics](https://analytics.google.com/analytics/).
2. Click **Admin**.
3. Select **Create Property** in the Property column.
4. Choose **Web**.
5. Fill in the details and click **Create**.

### Getting your Google Analytics `Tracking ID`

1. Sign in to your Google Analytics account.
2. Click **Admin**.
3. Select an account from the menu in the ACCOUNT column.
4. Select a property from the menu in the PROPERTY column.
5. Under Property, click **Tracking Info** > **Tracking Code**. Your Tracking ID is displayed at the top of the page.

### Using the ID in the plugin

1. Run `npm install gatsby-plugin-google-analytics` in your terminal.
2. Add the following to your `gatsby-config.js` file.

```javascript:title="gatsby-config.js"
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-plugin-google-analytics`,
      options: {
        // replace "UA-XXXXXXXXX-X" with your own Tracking ID
        trackingId: "UA-XXXXXXXXX-X",
      },
    },
  ],
}`
```

3. Build and deploy your site to start seeing traffic in your [Google Analytics dashboard](https://analytics.google.com/analytics/web/).

### Additional resources

- [Adding Analytics](/docs/how-to/adding-common-features/adding-analytics/)

Commit message:

Add documentation for deploying on Layer0

docs/docs/recipes/deploying-your-site.md, after:

---
title: "Recipes: Deploying Your Site"
tableOfContentsDepth: 1
---

Showtime. Once you are happy with your site, you are ready to go live with it!

## Preparing for deployment

### Prerequisites

- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start)
- The [Gatsby CLI](/docs/reference/gatsby-cli) installed

### Directions

1. Stop your development server if it is running (`Ctrl + C` on your command line in most cases)

2. For the standard site path at the root directory (`/`), run `gatsby build` using the Gatsby CLI on the command line. The built files will now be in the `public` folder.

```shell
gatsby build
```

3. To include a site path other than `/` (such as `/site-name/`), set a path prefix by adding the following to your `gatsby-config.js` and replacing `yourpathprefix` with your desired path prefix:

```js:title=gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  pathPrefix: `/yourpathprefix`,
}
```

There are a few reasons to do this -- for instance, hosting a blog built with Gatsby on a domain with another site not built on Gatsby. The main site would direct to `example.com`, and the Gatsby site with a path prefix could live at `example.com/blog`.

4. With a path prefix set in `gatsby-config.js`, run `gatsby build` with the `--prefix-paths` flag to automatically add the prefix to the beginning of all Gatsby site URLs and `<Link>` tags.

```shell
gatsby build --prefix-paths
```

5. Make sure that your site looks the same when running `gatsby build` as with `gatsby develop`. By running `gatsby serve` when you build your site, you can test out (and debug if necessary) the finished product before deploying it live.

```shell
gatsby build && gatsby serve
```

### Additional resources

- Walk through building and deploying an example site in [tutorial part one](/docs/tutorial/part-one/#deploying-a-gatsby-site)
- Learn about [performance optimization](/docs/performance/)
- Read about [other deployment related topics](/docs/preparing-for-deployment/)
- Check out the [deployment docs](/docs/deploying-and-hosting/) for specific hosting platforms and how to deploy to them

## Deploying to Netlify

Use [`netlify-cli`](https://www.netlify.com/docs/cli/) to deploy your Gatsby application without leaving the command-line interface.

### Prerequisites

- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start) with a single component `index.js`
- The [netlify-cli](https://www.npmjs.com/package/netlify-cli) package installed
- The [Gatsby CLI](/docs/reference/gatsby-cli) installed

### Directions

1. Build your gatsby application using `gatsby build`

2. Login into Netlify using `netlify login`

3. Run the command `netlify init`. Select the "Create & configure a new site" option.

4. Choose a custom website name if you want or press enter to receive a random one.

5. Choose your [Team](https://www.netlify.com/docs/teams/).

6. Change the deploy path to `public/`

7. Make sure that everything looks fine before deploying to production using `netlify deploy -d . --prod`

### Additional resources

- [Hosting on Netlify](/docs/hosting-on-netlify)
- [gatsby-plugin-netlify](/plugins/gatsby-plugin-netlify)

## Deploying to Vercel

Use [Vercel CLI](https://vercel.com/download) to deploy your Gatsby application without leaving the command-line interface.

### Prerequisites

- A [Vercel](https://vercel.com/signup) account
- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start) with a single component `index.js`
- [Vercel CLI](https://vercel.com/download) package installed
- [Gatsby CLI](/docs/reference/gatsby-cli) installed

### Directions

1. Login into Vercel CLI using `vercel login`

2. Change to the directory of your Gatsby.js application in the Terminal if you aren't already there

3. Run `vercel` to deploy it

### Additional resources

- [Deploying to Vercel](/docs/how-to/previews-deploys-hosting/deploying-to-vercel/)

## Deploying to Layer0

Use the [Layer0 CLI](https://docs.layer0.co/guides/cli) to deploy your Gatsby application without leaving the command-line interface.

### Prerequisites

- An account on [Layer0](https://app.layer0.co/signup)
- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start) set up with Gatsby's CLI
- [Layer0 CLI](https://docs.layer0.co/guides/cli) package installed

See the official guide on [how to deploy an Gatsby application on Layer0](https://docs.layer0.co/guides/gatsby)

### Additional resources

- [Deploying to Layer0](https://docs.layer0.co/guides/gatsby)

## Deploying to Cloudflare Workers

Use [`wrangler`](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/tooling/wrangler/) to deploy your Gatsby application globally without leaving the command-line interface.

### Prerequisites

- An account on [Cloudflare](https://dash.cloudflare.com/sign-up)
- A [Workers Unlimited plan](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/about/pricing/) for \$5/month to enable the KV store, which is required to serve the Gatsby files.
- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start) set up with Gatsby's CLI
- [wrangler](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/tooling/wrangler/install/) installed globally (`npm install -g @cloudflare/wrangler`)

### Directions

1. Build your Gatsby application using `gatsby build`
2. Run `wrangler config` where you'll be prompted for your [Cloudflare API token](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/quickstart/#api-token)
3. Run `wrangler init --site`
4. Configure `wrangler.toml`. First add [account ID](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/quickstart/#account-id-and-zone-id) field and then either
   1. A free workers.dev domain by setting `workers_dev = true`
   2. A custom domain on Cloudflare by setting `workers_dev = false`, `zone_id = "abdc..` and `route = customdomain.com/*`
5. In `wrangler.toml` set `bucket = "./public"`
6. Run `wrangler publish` and your site will be deployed in seconds!

### Additional resources

- [Hosting on Cloudflare](/docs/deploying-to-cloudflare-workers)

## Setting up Google Analytics

Use `gatsby-plugin-google-analytics` to track site activity and provide insights into how users access your website.

### Prerequisites

- A [Gatsby site](/docs/quick-start) with a `gatsby-config.js` file and an `index.js` page
- The [Gatsby CLI](/docs/reference/gatsby-cli) installed
- A domain from your provider of choice, e.g. [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/tutorials/get-a-domain/)

### Verify the domain in search.google.com

1. Navigate to the [Google search console](https://search.google.com/search-console/not-verified) to verify the domain by clicking on **Search Property** > **Add Property**. Type in your domain and press Continue.
2. Add a **TXT** record to your DNS configuration. Follow the directions for your provider, or refer to the [Google documentation](https://support.google.com/a/answer/183895?hl=en).

### Linking the domain to Google Analytics admin

1. Log into [Google Analytics](https://analytics.google.com/analytics/).
2. Click **Admin**.
3. Select **Create Property** in the Property column.
4. Choose **Web**.
5. Fill in the details and click **Create**.

### Getting your Google Analytics `Tracking ID`

1. Sign in to your Google Analytics account.
2. Click **Admin**.
3. Select an account from the menu in the ACCOUNT column.
4. Select a property from the menu in the PROPERTY column.
5. Under Property, click **Tracking Info** > **Tracking Code**. Your Tracking ID is displayed at the top of the page.

### Using the ID in the plugin

1. Run `npm install gatsby-plugin-google-analytics` in your terminal.
2. Add the following to your `gatsby-config.js` file.

```javascript:title="gatsby-config.js"
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: `gatsby-plugin-google-analytics`,
      options: {
        // replace "UA-XXXXXXXXX-X" with your own Tracking ID
        trackingId: "UA-XXXXXXXXX-X",
      },
    },
  ],
}`
```

3. Build and deploy your site to start seeing traffic in your [Google Analytics dashboard](https://analytics.google.com/analytics/web/).

### Additional resources

- [Adding Analytics](/docs/how-to/adding-common-features/adding-analytics/)
